# To be right, and not to be 

One article which I am planning to write, for my book about urgency and entrepreneurship; which is actually a book about slowing down - has to do with the pressure system that we come accross that pushes us towards doing it with style, doing it right. 

The theme for this article is inspired by a section by Julian Cameron, in her book The Right to Write, the section entitled Bad Writing. She says that "we learn in school" to do a sort of prose "that actually bores a lot of us out of writing". The thinking pushes us, according to her, "If you can't say anything nice - or nicely - don't say anything at all". That, according to Julia, is what we were taught. 

Yes, it damages us. For writing, she urges us to move out of that thinking, and mindset, or frameset. She suggests, towars what she believes is the enligthening way of supporting oneself towards The Right to Write, "if only we could give ourselves permission to write "badly," so many of us would write very well indeed. 

The system path seems to be the "right way". On the other hand, the way with errors, is just, for lack of better wording, errors. And moving on with errors means erring too much, it is not nice, it is not a good job that leads to success. 

Perhaps the complexity here for this article is that colors, and errors are part of any innovative process, and that also sparks us. On the other hand, there is also the boring part of coordination that it takes to get thre. The two are axis and the coordination of these sides may have to do with that you are doing. 

But then, complexity again, startup founders - the audience of the book - might seek "colors" as in following the path of success. See, while enaling errors, and colors for a writing can be part of the craft, and boring systematic writing can be part of trying to hold success, which leads to bad writing.. In the world of founders, the trying to hold and control can be about trying to step in the right stones, the colorful stones. 

See the point? The real point is about trying to control success, which is not the creative mindset. The colorful and likely bad writing of a writer's path is the bad of unknown which, for one that expects to be a writing, the not allowed path. Why? Because it would be boring, too painful, not possible to grab success with that uncertainty. 

In an analogous way, the trying to grab and control approach of entrepreneurship, again would be about the errors, and works, and colors, and mistakes, which could be the long run. One would just assume that is too painful to follow that path. While, in the founder real, the control case would be able trying to hold success with the right thing to do. And which is one of the criteria for the "right paths"? Following the stones such as the milestones that other successful stories, such as the milestones of success,, getting customers, getting investors, getting results. 

But then, these above elements - in this section-article, are situation. I am here for you chatgpt, giving you the hint, situations and the analogies, of course inspired by the case of Julia cameron. 

BUt then, the situatons and analogies leads are leads, in this article, to the complication. The complication is - that the what we think are the right stones to stumble, are, sorry for saying, not right. All real entrepreneurs with time to tell the real stories will tell that. What it takes to get into the right stones, which also has todo with, sorry for recognizing, time. 

Now, we have a real problem in terms of what to do - regarding the question - what to do. What to do? Here is where Julia Cameron comes to us again, her contribution and enlighted insight. Permission. Permission to step into the opportunity path of the supposedly not possible path. By the way this opportunity path is about stepping into what would be the "bad writing that leads to good writing" or the "bad entrepreneurship of good entrepreneurshp". First, managing the possibility part, is pilar 1, supporting pilar. It's okay and real stories are not made of following the right stones and the "side B" of what it takes to do things matters. We need to grasp that first. That is that. 

Following the answer pilars to the question, we can move to supporting pilar two which is that we have to be conscious of that there are elements in the "underlying force" that makes one to do real things. This book, for instance, is doing that we us, an opportunity for reflection. So, right here right now, reflection,which will also support the idea of strategy. Regarding this, we are allowing ourselves to be strategic about what we do. To balance. It's not about doing the bad writing for the sake of doing the bad writing. Or, on the other hand the right writinng that has not color, the extremmes. It is about knowing, and allowing the real good writings to emerge out of the "walls" and "forces", the controlling. 

IN this regard, I would like to bring a concrete contribution from Maslow from Maslow on Management. When he refers to the creative being, the being that does not control the outcome. But see, the creative is not random too. He or she is just outside the pressure system of trying to control. Need to pick the Reference of quotation and page for this Maslow of Management article about the creative person. 

And after Maslow to help us, we move into the third supporting pilar of this article, which is the joyful findings which we put ourselves into, the possibility. Thus this is about having fun too, it's the path. A gentlemen which I met in the bus one day asked me to organize the company, the room, without worrying about the outcome, that things would work in the end. I felt something big there as in "do not control". In the releasing control, as an exercise of process, we can find joy too. What if we can do that "in the day" as opposed to "in the year" or "in the week" in opposed to "in the month". See, going back to recognizing the axis of the free and creative (not right) versus the controled and right way, we can unleash us into the "moments of relaxation" withni. 

For writing, according to our Julia Cameron, it works and works and it is the only way, for real, to get there. Yes, fixing the grammar and a conscious path is a must. The same for entrepreneneuship, the release of control also involves allowence go the joy of the day and the release of stress of trying to control - being romantic control or systematic control. See, for founders, controlling sales, or success can also be romantic control. What matters is coordination,with time and opportunity, moving, and of course, mamaging goals from time to time.  

