## The gray-scale rainbow and the empty golden pots

To say that every entrepreneur has a dream no longer fits. Some start with a north, an energy, an initial goal - that gives them strength, that keeps them connected. Such energy cannot be the main motivation for the daily routine. If the dream is the target, fixed, the entrepreneur will be stepping on eggs because at some point, he will probably notice the colors of the rainbow fading or he may receive the message that there is no gold in the pot.

On the other hand, the entrepreneur needs to find an energy that guides him to support a lot that comes his way, since the field is complex and uncertain. So, it is better to exchange that idea of ​​the dream of entrepreneurship for something more practical - a north; and from that direction, some dreams. In other words, entrepreneurs need direction for their daily lives, but they must walk with a more open mindset. They need to find a way to enjoy life and resolve adversity.

It is not easy - nor is it tasty. And that is why the media prefers the easiest version to tell the stories. It is easier for the newspaper to tell the story of the lucky one among the countless entrepreneurs who had big dreams. Have you ever imagined what another entrepreneur's article would be like who worked for 10 years in the cafeteria and finally came out of the red between failures and successes? It simply would not have an audience. But the stories told are more than just opportunistic and confusing to us; they are also unfair. The truth is that many of the great ideas of success reached the state of success after projects that failed their entrepreneurs. The truth is that the idea has changed, the company has changed its name, the partners have changed - the market has changed. Eventually they succeed, eventually something goes right and then someone comes to summarize the idea trying to make a simple trace.

Airbnb, the world's largest hotel competitor, a pioneer in the collaborative economy, almost didn't happen. An initial version of the idea had been tested but it was not going well. The founders gave up and were already working on another website, a platform for finding student accommodation. Only after 4 months, when they realized that the project for students would not work, they returned to the idea of ​​Airbnb. And yet it didn't take off at the time - it was execution and a host of other conditions that eventually lined the stars for Airbnb to take off. But what did they really know according to co-founder Brian Chesky? That they needed to pay the rent (2015).

Então podemos dizer que um sonho forte, um alvo muito bem definido, não é a premissa básica do sucesso. Para o autor Steve Blank, nenhum plano de negócios sobrevive ao contato com o primeiro cliente (2010). A verdade é que a boa execução é aquela que abre espaço para mudanças no decorrer do percurso. Ela é, acima de tudo, experimental porque torna-se um espaço de aprendizado. Quando empreendedores caminham com a janela do aprendizado aberta, eles estão executando com pés no chão com uma visão mais ampla, inclusive sobre o comportamento deles. Ampliando a visão eles podem viver melhor as adversidades, podem adaptar seus negócios e suas condutas. Mas, para isso, eles precisam de fôlego porque o desespero em uma agenda que é curta, ou urgente, pode significar um final prematuro — falaremos mais sobre a agenda urgente adiante.
O autor, empreendedor e investidor, Paul Graham criou uma uma metáfora para descrever a situação típica quando fundadores encontram o período longo de calmaria, frustrações e decepção. Este é o Vale da Tristeza ou Through of Sorrow (2015) em inglês. A versão “de buteco” desse fenômeno seria aquele Bar-balada que foi inaugurado no bairro: logo virou point na semana do lançamento mas depois do carnaval inicial tornou-se uma casa vazia e assim ficou. O Vale da Tristeza é esse caminho que empreendedores percorrem, quando conseguem perdurar. Aos que suportam, encontram clientes verdadeiros, poucos deles; e lá na frente encontram oportunidades quando seus produtos ou serviços encontram uma identidade e tornam-se referência.
