## Wantrepreneur no - infinite learner yes

Wantrepreneur, in English, is a pejorative term normally used as a reference for someone who is an entrepreneur, who wants status, who prefers to show results rather than working for results. So this categorization is an alert given by some serious entrepreneurs. It serves as a reminder to remind us that the destiny of the entrepreneur is not the status but the goal of entrepreneurship.

This vision or alert is valid but much easier to be articulated by those who have already failed and hit the mark, longtime entrepreneurs. Now this distinction is a bit confusing because it just seems to propose a distinction by looking at status - entrepreneurs who execute and entrepreneurs who want to be entrepreneurs but don't execute. She does not deal very well with beginners who are still trying to be born. The real question is precisely whether entrepreneurs can walk their paths in order to be entrepreneurs.

The question is, if they can look at references, at models. Can wanting to be an entrepreneur be a destination? Yes. The entrepreneur can and should want to be - because if he just wants to do something without thinking about his role, he disconnects, becomes less human. In the field of being an entrepreneur he can and should look at other entrepreneurs who are role models, he can and should look at roles, above all.

Now what are the role models that we have to look for to be inspired? Well, these models are always changing and you should choose the models that suit your business and goal. But the question of the model is simply a way for you to interpret lasting lessons. Because it's that simple and because the world of knowledge is documenting things like that - presenting people's ideas, creating models, references, icons so you can get inspired. So looking at icons is a shortcut that we can use to retrieve the lessons. Ray Dalio, perhaps a super model icon, is a type of special walking card deck. He wrote Principles, just to help other entrepreneurs - he documented his principles so you don't have to contact or hire him - it could be difficult or expensive.

And that's exactly what Brian Chesky, co-founder of Airbnb, talks about; which indicated that if you are part of a special group, like a millionaire, you can hire great people to teach you - you have access to the models. But if you are not, as it was not once, there is good news: books. Brian says books are cheap ways to access special people; but you just need to know which books to get. According to him, there are always the best books for the various topics and when you search for the best reference you learn better.

And speaking of this issue of learning how to learn, it is worth remembering that Brian himself became the model icon of Reid Hoffman, co-founder of LinkedIn. According to Hoffman, Brian is an example of an infinite apprentice CEO.

So if there is a model that is the basis for other models it is this model of being an apprentice - also a better way to not become a wantrepreneur. So there is a crossroads, or there will be several, on the road of the entrepreneur. The opportunity will always appear in them: to navigate to the side of wanting the status or to navigate to the side of wanting the truth. The risk of status is that you may find yourself not being yourself, which can be a major impediment to your learning - let's say in an open meeting where it would be crucial that you were telling the truth, your problems for example. The ever-apprentice entrepreneur takes another path. He says who he is, shows himself as he is. You do not need to browse the network of those who want to appear and you can always operate being who you are and thus you are more likely to be learning. In the end, he walks faster because the world in front of him will always remain dynamic, often unpredictable. And in this non-linear field, the eternal apprentice works better.
