# Estar disposto para planejar, refletir, analisar 

<!-- 

* https://chat.openai.com/share/11e18a75-c970-41be-8e3a-9ed870e702b3

References

Cameron, J. (1998). The Right to Write. TarcherPerigee.

--> 

Some activities naturally pose a challenge to initiate. Imagine, as an entrepreneur, if you had to redesign your sales process, devise a new strategy, or reflect on culture in the early stage of your start-up. These tasks often carry expectations and elicit strong emotions as our minds gear up for thoughtful analysis.

Indeed, we naturally gravitate towards tasks where we feel we have a firm grip on the steering wheel. These are the activities where we're in control, where we can clearly see the road ahead and navigate the journey at our own pace.

Yet, when it comes to more challenging tasks, we might feel anxiety or fear of losing this sense of progress. And we have good reasons, such as the desire to feel safe and adequately prepared for these types of activities. The idea of progressing through planning and analysis isn't as straightforward as following a recipe or even executing a labor-intensive task that, while energy-consuming, remains within our known capabilities.

The repercussion of this is that we often feel we need to be in the right mood for certain tasks - to be prepared, ready, and have everything sorted out. This predicament isn't exclusive to writers, as Cameron (1998) highlighted in her book, 'The Right to Write'. It is a phenomenon that plagues all sorts of professionals, especially those in leadership or entrepreneurial roles.

Furthermore, the notion of "analysis paralysis" frequently resonates in our minds, embodying the fear that we may become so wrapped up in overthinking and overanalyzing that we end up immobilized, incapable of making decisions or taking action. This fear can amplify our anxiety and the perceived necessity to be 'in the right mood' to tackle these demanding tasks. While the real situation of analysis paralysis can indeed be debilitating, the prevalence of this concept in discussions and self-reflections often heightens the apprehension about engaging with complex tasks. It's essential to distinguish between the phenomenon that gave rise to the concept and the rhetorical device it has become, often used to accentuate fears and challenges in the execution of demanding tasks.

And, in the pursuit of a solution, it goes without saying that this or any reflection on the matter will automatically bring us more clarity about our automatic decisions. Moreover, it is highly valuable to consider Julia Cameron's idea for the situation of writers, which could shed light for entrepreneurs. The exercise that Julia proposes involves writing - for example, for 10 minutes - about what's on your mind, some concern, your lack of preparation for instance. Following this, try to write for another 5 minutes about how your mood towards the activity has changed. She asks that we make a sort of report on the experience.

<!--

Research: Look for the specific part in "Maslow on Management" where Abraham Maslow compares and contrasts the mindsets of a controller and a creative individual. Understand the context and implications of this comparison.

Analysis: Analyze the tension between trying to control the outcome of potentially risky unknown tasks and the subsequent pull towards this mindset. Consider how this tension might lead to the anxiety, expectation, and need to "be in the mood" before initiating certain tasks.

Connection: Investigate how Maslow's work supports the concept of needing to be in a certain mindset or mood to tackle challenging tasks. Draw connections between his theories and the ideas presented in your writing.

-->






