# Identity 

A successful entrepreneur can be likened to an artist, in the sense of being successful in bringing a vision, a creation, to the world. However, the opposite is not true because not every artist reveals art to the world. This is because art remains art even when it is contained, incubated, when it is not flying - the artist does not cease to be an artist while learning. On the other hand, the artist-in-the-eyes-of-the-world works on refining their idea, so that their art makes sense to them and at the same time to their audience. Even though they often go through chaotic navigation, the good artist ceases to be chaotic as they build their identity and their work, their work; an identity that embraces and is embraced by the audience, perhaps not directly but as an audience confirms the production, then it is believed that that identity gives rise to the embraced product, that is, the identity is validated.

The identity of an entrepreneur, and in this sense that extends to the team, and spreads in a company, is created or developed by their own journey. In this sense, the formed identity is more than just something that by chance an entrepreneur, or team, develops as in the sense of discovering in such a way that it is validated, as a validated learning, which becomes stable at the moment of success. No, in fact the bigger issue about identity is that it is not found but created and even created by the very interactions with the external environment, obviously influenced by the founding entrepreneurs, obviously influenced by the vision. This is because entrepreneurship, especially in the case of startups seeking growth, depends on the environment for growth and in this sense the search for social capital is a large part of the process. And indeed, the dependence on the use of this social capital implies affiliations or agreements or affairs with groups that are understood as support entities but which become definers of the identity. In other words, the entrepreneur-founder or team depends on this support which more than perception is dependence in the sense of identity, that is, arises the complication of the entrepreneur or team that finds itself trapped in biased thoughts, in models that embraced them. As they think it is necessary, social capital, they cannot lose, or let go.

In the sections below we will consider, first, how this identity develops from passion as associated with a greater vision, values, or even passions on top of effort or performance, but not independent of this external environment that contributes to the identity by being centered in the effort in these interactions and need for support with entities, tools, groups, associations. With this, we reflect first on how growing also grows identity, where identity is born and how it can become rooted. From there, we will look at some reflections on how teams are influenced, from simple situations to in companies and large corporations, where in fact, as in the day to day these issues are felt or lived with great emotions experienced in the challenges of everyday entrepreneurial, or corporate life, where the issue seems like responsibility but which in fact can be a reflection on identities. And finally, we end our reflection, our moment, with considerations on how entrepreneurs try to escape, see from the outside, get out of the bubble where they feel and where they represent these roles.

## Fusion from vision 

This condition stamps the state of the individual's self-realization and resonates with the humanized version of the relationship between work and the individual presented by Maslow [^maslow] (Maslow, 1998, p.1) which states that highly evolved individuals assimilate their work with their identities. In other words, work becomes part of the being that defines the individual.

[^maslow]: "These highly evolved individuals assimilate their work into their identity into their self, i.e., work actually becomes part of the self part of the individual's definition of himself."  Maslow (Maslow, 1998. p.1)

In this sense, we can consider that the true entrepreneur - or the true manager, or true worker - feels good about what they do and lives the relationship with their work. The relationship with work defines the identity and this is being human because the work of the human connects them with the world — it is through work that the worker sees themselves in the world. This essence, irrevocable in the life of the entrepreneur, will bring them emotions of conquest and also emotions of loss, as their work and their identity are the target of the adversities of the journey of transforming art and identity thrown into the world.


Entrepreneur, investor, and professor Steve Blank reported not believing that he was working in Silicon Valley and being paid to do what he would do for free (Blank, 2014) or that he might even pay to have the opportunity. This is not uncommon at some stage for entrepreneurs who find passions during their journeys. It happens when they stumble upon opportunities along the way — events that resonate with the entrepreneur's identity or that form a new identity. As the entrepreneur progresses on the journey of discovery and refinement, they better see the art being carved out of the stone and their identity — feeling like a deserving or rightful owner, or protagonist of the discovery, of what they saw, vision. That is, proud but also responsible, or the one carrying that flag.

<!-- 

Reference artists and entrepreneurs 

https://steveblank.com/2011/03/31/entrepreneurship-is-an-art-not-a-job/
https://steveblank.com/2011/04/09/entrepreneurs-are-artists/

-->

At this stage, the entrepreneur connects with the art, or their identity as an artist is defined. A marvel of brand, and brand. This sensation of revealed, stamped identity generates entropy, that is, it feeds the entrepreneur again on their journey - thus creating the foundation, or condition, defining the line of behavior that says "I would do this even for free" or "I might even pay someone instead of receiving".

This condition, this place in the entrepreneur's journey, is revealing of the phenomenon of a potential for creation and destruction. Based on this entrepreneur-artist, who works on their work and identity and seeks connection with the world — good relations with customers, suppliers, collaborators, etc. — their passions and motivations, and the way they manage them, are elements that influence the journey towards success or failure.

In this sense, the passion of the entrepreneur is a subject explored by researchers who take into account the observation of the effects produced, for example, the impact on investors, in the business world.

### The price of social capital 

But then, all of this is great but we as entrepreneurs in our drive to deliver such development, we are driven to get into affairs with other groups, or entities, or even systems perceived as required to advance our journey. In reality, a solo founder may go seek to find a cofounder within a larger entrepreneurial or incubation entity that she had joined. Or an accelerator might be an opportunity. And there are all sorts of other entities that are dynamic, interactive, full of energy and showing alignment with the need of these founders. In other words, the possibility of affairs with external entities is not only evident of modern, networked, and rich ecosystem of entrepreneurship - where they will get from books to all sorts of supporting entities up to venture capital or other crowd supports -  but in fact realidily innevitable, as in difficult to avoid, as entrepreneurs understand they do seek, find, and acquire social capital. 

In other words, the formation of the founder's identity is not an outcome that is shown alltogether, along with the launch of the service or product - althought it is certainly visible through the launches as of course through launches and the limelight people can look and reflect about the identity - but in fact goes along with the modern approach of entrepreneurship where interactions with these entities happen along the way, which also goes well with the lean way of doing entrepreneurship. 

It comes from this growth with social capital that not only their identities are formed but are assumed as vital. When they find into it, they perceive as a value, and of course the implied challenge that values can't be taken. Thus, it may be so that they use time to not only seek and join these affairs but also nurture their identities and associations after all it is what protects them. 

And it does so, even so and so that they can also get into trouble. 

> *"Our focus on particular identities can enrich our bonds and make us do many things for each other and can help to take us beyond our self-centered lives. The recent literature on 'social capital,' powerfully explored by Robert Putnam and others, has brought out clearly enough how an identity with others in the same social community can make the lives of all go much better in that community; a sense of belonging to a community is thus seen as a resource - like capital." (Sen, 2006, p.2) 

<!-- 

## Reference 

Identity and Violence: The Illusion of Destiny. W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.

--> 

### How investors recognize dangers of passions  

É um desafio de pesquisa encontrar meios de avaliar os tipos de paixões que determinam mais ou menos sucesso. Para isso, pesquisadores normalmente se baseiam em dados quantitativos, por exemplo eles perguntam para investidores sobre os tipos de paixões dos empreendedores que capturam os melhores investimentos. Essa abordagem estampa que a arte de empreender tem sucesso na materialização da inovação, rumo ao mercado.

Embora certas categorias de paixões, como a paixão por empreender ou paixão pelo produto, sejam relevantes para investidores, uma questão desafiadora é o viés da paixão que pode ser articulado como paixão tendenciosa. Na visão apontada pelos pesquisadores Warnick, Murnieks, McMullen e Brooks, (Warnick, 2018) a questão da abertura ao feedback foi revelada como importante para que empreendedores possam obter investimento de investidores, como os investidores anjo e dos investidores de capital de risco. Sim, investidores preferem empreendedores apaixonados mas ao mesmo tempo querem os que estão mais abertos ao feedback.

Em outras palavras, abertura ao feedback é um elemento crucial para que investidores possam ajudar empreendedores para conquistarem seus próximo passos. Decorre da pesquisa que a paixão cega, ou sem restrições, pode se manifestar como egocentrismo, rigidez ou resistência; impactando a não participação dos investidores. Vale lembrar que o papel do investidor é do analista de risco da relação do negócio com o ambiente externo. Em outras palavras, o bom investidor está preocupado se o empreendedor é capaz de ouvidos ao feedback externo, pois sabe que a última palavra é do mercado. Assim, o papel dos investidores não deixa de ser mais uma teste, uma validação, que é compatível com as várias outras validações como o mercado/clientes, competição, etc.

Fica mais clara a visão que empreender é ciência e arte, que nasce protagonizada por empreendedores, apaixonados pela arte mas igualmente apaixonados pela ciência, que buscam o equilíbrio das paixões levando em consideração a conexão com o meio onde produzem e entregam suas criações. Talvez essa formulação  ajude a explicar a tendência dos investidores a confiarem mais em times de cofundadores do que em empreendedores que são sozinhos pois provavelmente, salvo exceções, empreendedores solitários são mais irredutíveis.

Assim a jornada do empreendedor sofre com as tensões do mundo externo. Talvez uma questão, não muito abordada nos manuais de startup e empreendedorismo, é também uma questão dos artistas — eles modelam suas identidades, com seus trabalhos e suas obras, e se apaixonam por elas. Mas a partir daí eles encontram uma encruzilhada quando seus trabalhos se confrontam com audiências. Nessa encruzilhada eles decidem, voltar, continuar no estado da identidade anterior, ou explorar o novo caminho, aprendendo com a audiência. A versão destruição é justamente quando se encantam por uma identidade (ou de auto eficácia, se performance, de auto estima) que eles desenvolvem em cima do estado da arte. Isso não deveria ser problema exceto que a arte que está no rumo de encontrar o mundo se encontra em adaptação. Quando se encantam, se amarram, se colocam em risco da desconexão com o próximo estágio, por exemplo o lançar de suas criações na frente de audiências. Esse assunto é complexo justamente porque a audiência, como o mercado, está no futuro e não se sabe onde as coisas vão dar.






### (Consider these cases of Steve to be out of here as they are brought into lean no lean)

Pior é que muitas vezes a encruzilhada não tem placas — sem aviso. Steve Blank relata a ilustração do empreendedor que está enamorado com sua ideia e não ouve o feedback do mundo exterior:

[Colocar aqui a tradução da história do Steve Blank que está dentro do vídeo do map14 Melbourne]

Então torna-se aparente, nem sempre na hora H, a rejeição da mudança da arte, ou mudança do seu papel e identidade — seu papel, seu propósito (ou como ele se vê,  ou como ele avalia suas chances, sua auto estima e auto eficácia). A situação apresentada por Steve onde "no one wants to hear that your baby is ugly" (????) simplesmente decorre da identidade previamente formada; como se a descoberta do artista, mesmo própria (ainda não revelada) colocasse ele em um estado de euforia, de ansiedade, com um potencial energético incrível, criativo e ao mesmo tempo devastador.

Em outra exploração, o empreendedor mantém o status da sua descoberta anterior, da linha pré-planejada, mesmo quando vai para as ruas com o objetivo de descobrir mais sobre o problema/solução, por exemplo quando vai para as ruas para fazer uma pesquisa, por exemplo ouvir seus potenciais clientes. A situação é — o empreendedor volta do “trabalho na rua”, abre a porta e diz para seus colegas "vamos pivotar!' alegando que ouviu o “feedback das galáxias” porque alguém que confirmou sua teoria, ou mesmo ele foi influenciado pelo prazer da confirmação de alguma hipótese, ou a confirmação que a linha traçada do trabalho deu resultados positivos.

Vale a reflexão, sobre as diversas formas que esse fenômeno se apresenta, pois pode ser tóxica, ainda mais em se tratando do empreendedor. Por exemplo, um funcionário subordinado poderia facilmente observar essa cena e imaginar que o empreendedor está de fato sendo responsável — oras, o presidente  foi para as ruas, foi buscar dados, está honrando a relação do usuário, do consumidor, do cliente, com o mundo externo. Ele não criou isso só na mente dele. Passa uma ideia, forte mas perigosa.

Mas provavelmente essa velocidade, essa ansiedade, ou urgência, caracteriza o empreendedor que está manipulando os dados, ou a leitura dos dados, está ainda se reafirmando e pior acreditando de tal forma na sua própria narrativa ao ponto de tentar contaminar os seus colaboradores - ah, os clientes disseram que a comida precisa de mais sal.

Para poder melhor articular esse fenômeno, ou síndrome, Steve Blank formulou a Regra das 72 Horas: o fundador está proibido de voltar das ruas e dizer "vamos pivotar" por um período de 72 horas. Depois de 72 horas, eles reconsideram o que ouviram.



### Considerations about the atraction to identifications with representative identities 

It should, then, be considered, that the attachment with certain groups, or entities, and even frameworks and tools - which are by the way not only connected but also empowered by communities, therefore supported by social element which values social capital - where the sense of identity is alive, can and will provide real values but along also the value of identity formation for the participant, and with that the implication of identity attachment, which in itself acts as value, therefore it becomes valued as the things we take that we cannot lose or that when under attack we may react to preserve which may become strongly than the general things perceived as necessary. And by that, as discussed, the attachment with such identity, or identities, may be assumed to be a source of greater value although which may not be true, just like a human may enjoy the perceived benefits of an inclusion in a given group but that does not give the final answer of who that person is, or better, who they are ought to become, and in fact may even harm that person's path as they represent, they act, they are directed in their reasoning, and directed in their decision, which may harm their self development path, their true aspirations, the formation of who they are to become. A supporting line to this general idea can be guided by the enlighted line of thinking of Amarthya Sen in Identity and Violence: 

> *"In our normal lives, we see ourselves as members of a variety of groups - we belong to all of them. A person's citizenship, residence, geographic origin, gender, class, politics, profession, employment, food habits, sports interestsm taste in music, social commitments, etc., make us members of a variety of groups. Each of these collectivities, to all of which this person simultaneously belongs, gives her a particular identity. None of them can be taken to be the person's only identity or singular membership category." (Sen, 2006, p.2) 

## Driven by emotions 

<!--

# Not platonic, might be attatchment for now 

#

* ( ) Maslow has a point that the person identity in the job sort of blends with themselves. Check Maslow on Management. 

--> 

The article discusses the emotional challenges faced by entrepreneurs and explores the idea that successful entrepreneurs will always struggle with emotions as they shape an entrepreneurial character - they recognize that their role shapes them as somebody in the future. We will experience how we experience the situation and the complication of distancing from emotions since we unfold our productivity first based on it. Thus, the humanuized approach is complex as we suffer with characterization and integrity trainwreck. Emotions affect us, as organizations such as startups, start with founders. Emotions are triggers for value-systems, associated with who they are and their roles. 

Situation - We make calls, we make mistakes - in the context of urgencies, pressures of judgments. We make trouble such as ends. And after post-mortem, we wished we could call us back in time. Complication - The executor, as a person and their role, make decisions and emotions counts, chimes in, especially in front of projections of judges. Our aspirations, and who we think we are make us feel, influences our calls. It's tough to detach. 

Depender de empreender por necessidade pode decepcionar muita gente. As incertezas entre conquistar e perder clientes não só trazem dificuldades na questão econômica; trazem emoções fortes que mudam o rumo do empreendedor e até a crença sobre o significado de empreender. Não é incomum ver empreendedores que desistem e interrompem seus projetos porque não conseguem sistematizar acertos diante das tantas falhas, das brigas e das emoções vividas no olho do furacão.

Mas quando interrompem seus projetos muitas vezes surge um fenômeno curioso. Logo após a desistência, eles se vêem livres e começam a organizar as ideias ou analisar melhor a situação sobre os altos e baixos que vivenciaram. Uma possível explicação para esse fenômeno é a mudança de uma posição insegura para uma mais segura, por exemplo quando desistem do empreendedorismo e pegam um trabalho temporário. Porém, em outros casos, a simples consideração sobre desistir já traz uma liberdade — uma oportunidade para novos olhares. Outra explicação é que o pensamento criativo surge justamente na hora que o empreendedor se vê livre da pressão psicológica.

Então fica a pergunta: será que o empreendedor de sucesso consegue separar as emoções das ideias como quem está dentro e ao mesmo fora do furacão? A resposta é sim. Empreendedores de sucesso carregam atributos muitas vezes interpretados como resiliência e ainda tolerância às situações ambíguas —eles vivem dentro e fora da bolha das adversidades.

Segundo Robert McKee [1] "Na vida, se você vê um corpo morto na rua, é atingido por uma onda de adrenalina: 'meu Deus, ele está morto!' Talvez você fuja de medo. Mais tarde, quando os ânimos se acalmam, talvez reflita sobre o significado do falecimento desse desconhecido, sua própria mortalidade, e a vida sob a sombra da morte.” A verdade é que diante dos altos e baixos ficamos emocionalmente afetados porque somos humanos, porque sentimos. Por exemplo, falar não, mesmo para um tipo indesejado de cliente, não é tão fácil caso o empreendedor sinta empatia e compaixão. Ou seja, não é somente uma simples questão de adequação ao negócio.

Quando sentimos na pele, nas situações que vivemos emoções por insegurança ou medo, sentimos porque nosso cérebro está nos defendendo: às vezes até percebemos as situações de risco como se tivéssemos sendo atacados — como tentar fugir de um tigre. A ideia de perder um cliente, ou mesmo uma reunião de cliente que não aconteceu (o cliente precisou cancelar), são eventos do dia a dia do empreendedor que vem de qualquer forma, pois fazem parte das adversidades no campo de batalha. Assim, nossa percepção determina nossas emoções e reações. Se estivermos condicionados com a percepção que perder um cliente é uma ameaça, nosso cérebro pode acionar uma rotina de emergência e as emoções contabilizadas podem ser fortes demais ao ponto de impactar nossa performance e nossa capacidade de, por exemplo, refletir com a criatividade que poderia eliminar problemas.

Para McKee, na vida, a ideia e emoção vêm separadamente. Esse olhar pode nos ajudar a explicar a reflexão libertadora que surge quando um ex-empreendedor desiste mas logo que entra em um novo emprego consegue organizar as ideias — ah, se pudesse dar uma ligação para ele mesmo ou voltar no tempo.

Segundo Reid Hoffman e Ben Casnocha (2012), o corretor de imóveis não sabe quando seu próximo pagamento irá entrar porque seu trabalho é em cima de altos e baixos. Então o corretor trabalha para vender mas também na construção da sua rede de clientes que é compatível com mudanças constantes no dia a dia. Pode-se dizer que vendedores e corretores são resilientes ou até oportunistas. Mas podemos olhar para a disciplina que define as condições de sobrevivência dos corretores: eles precisam criar um espaço para trabalhar as ideias de forma isolada das flechadas de emoção, das adversidades do dia a dia. Quando o corretor vende uma casa grande, ele está consciente que não poderá se abalar por um tempo maior. O que explica essa resiliência de vendedores, em parte, é um pré-conceito inerente na própria profissão: vendedores sobrevoam, olham o ambiente, trabalham nas redes e eventualmente fazem o mergulho para conquistar seus prêmios. Eles não categorizam o trabalho da venda (da conquista do prêmio) como sendo o trabalho maior. Para eles, o que dá trabalho é trabalhar na rede, sobrevoar, navegar, observar, procurar novos rumos.

Mas o dia a dia do empreendedor é diferente, pois infelizmente emoções não surgem com uma faixa que diz “cuidado você está sendo encantado por emoções!” A realidade é que não separamos emoções de ideias justamente porque somos humanos e porque aprendemos a sentir em primeiro lugar. A verdade é que nossa versão humanizada é prova que fomos programados para estarmos ocasionalmente perdidos.

A questão que surge é o dilema do ser empreendedor versus ser humano. Seria o empreendedor de sucesso menos humano já que consegue melhor sobrevoar a batalha do dia a dia? Muitos tornam-se mais experientes na medida que sintetizam pensamentos com base no aprendizado e diante das adversidades do dia a dia. E muitos aparentam ser mais sistemáticos ou até mais frios depois de tantas falhas e acertos. Mas essas são percepções que levam em consideração o caminho já percorrido de quem chegou lá.

Agora, no campo das batalhas e das incertezas, precisamos de uma abordagem humanizada para trilharmos um caminho que não seja desmotivante como “deixar de ser humano”.

Esse caminho existe graças também a outro fator humano, assim como o sentir. Decorre da nossa capacidade humana de sentir pelo outro. Quando olhamos para fora, para o problema alheio, nós sentimos, mas sentimos de uma forma diferente com empatia e compaixão; bem diferente de estar vivendo como o protagonista. A versão humanizada para o empreendedor é direta: podemos ajudar outros empreendedores, principalmente aqueles que estão vivendo adversidades. Mesmo partindo da posição de ouvinte, estamos exercitando nossas capacidades de observar, ouvir, refletir e opinar. Ainda, engajamos de forma “junto com eles” com empatia e compaixão pelo problema mas ao mesmo tempo sabemos que estamos fora do olho do furacão. Essa abordagem nos ajuda a sintetizar as ideias sem a confusão das emoções que só o protagonista sente. Torna-se um exercício que nos deixa mais arrojados, que cria um modelo mental mais flexível, um olhar; sem contar a ajuda que estaremos fazendo ao próximo.


### Being tested by supporting groups 

* First draft 

I wanted to write, the theme, about the emotions and judgements that can get into the way of the execution of projects. Start-ups, teams, and their constituents are people - they feel, they have emotions. We are also storytellers, and we make sense of what we do with narratives. And, we judge what we do, when we do it in realtime. It`s our natural ability. 

But the focus for this essay is about the life of an entrepreneur that wants to execute projects that demands progression. That is the situation for many. In that context, within this situation, this realm, the situation also has to do with one that seeks to innovate as one wants to break in a market, to call attention of potential users, buyers, stakeholders, partners, and more. 

Therefore, the entrepreneurial goal necessarily involves outcomes to that start-up, team, and one - the constituents -are interested in achieving. In other words, there is discovery. So it comes down to the art and science of progressing onto something that is not guaranteed. 

The complication, in the ocean of many complications, has ties with on one end, the excitement, the vision. Another angle, the expectations, associated with goals (or the outcome after goals). And, on the other hand, the realities in thw world of doing it. The execution with the results in the present will cause reactions from the individuals, which ar part of the teams. Tension comes in play, from the judgement, and analysis and trying to probe the ideas, the methods, the solutions, the market interest, and ones to help. And the jugment comes as narratives. As we have to tell ourselves how we are doing, tell others. We advance by telling. 

Consider the science and art of pitching, for example. When many say that knowing how to pitch matters, and many say, yes it matters. Marc Andreessen, 

```
I think the formal presentation is another test . . . As a founder, if you are not good enough at your job as a CEO, to get up and present, to institutional investors, for 60 minutes, and sell them on your thing . . .

We love when somebody walks in and has a compelling pitch so we can give them a check . . . that is a successful day for us.

In contrast, every other pitch you ever gonna make is going to somebody that is going to be much worse than us … Customers, they are going to be like — no, I am not going to give you any money — like their default position right? Engineers — you going to try to recruit engineers, and they got 20 other job offers, so why does your pitch is going to be much better than the other 20 startups? (Marc Andreessen at Startup School SV 2016, Y Combinator, 2016, 11:49)
```

The point here is that we are being judged by say "another point of view". In other words, judging ourselves all the time - all that we will do. When we craft a pitch, even before it is not shown to other, we do not even show and we read it as if we are a judge, an investors. Poor judgement right? It does not even have anything to do with the real outside world that, in the end of the day, it is going to read, to judge. 

Thus, it is up to us to keep track with methods that can support us to advance, to judge and judge it right, and judge in the right time. One theme in this theme is when to judge for execution of projects. Since a startup acts supposedly faster, things that really complicated as we are moving with specific tasks, when we are acting doing it. 

The focus here I am looking at is activities that be broken, generate poor results, as we judge in realtime. Knowing when to judge is a reflection that I invite you to engage here. And in this regard, we can get help from one of the area that is one of the most complicated fields that involves creativity and execution - an area that when judgement comes into the act of doing, writing. Two ideas, that explores the same point where our conscious judge gets in our way. The goal of these lessons is to spark in us a light, the light of control. 

"Aiming for that, I learned to write setting judgment aside and save a polish for later. I canned this new, freer writing "laying track." For the first time I gave myself emotional permission to do rough drafts and for those rough drafts to be, well, rough. " - (Cameron, 1998, p. 19)

Now, another point of view for writing, from the Art of Non-fiction, is from Ayn Rand, the philosopher known for objectivism. She pointed that when writing, the act of engaging with editing when doing the first draft is a writing approach that leads to major complications, such as the conscious editor process that messes up with the subconscious that needs to write, to run smooth. 

Looking at the writing moment of a writer, and stages, seems to give us a view of how we manage our activities, micro management where a judge comes into our way before. Both, Julia and Ayn Rand, recommend using the judgement, of course. But the real point is when to call it. 

Julia Cameron added that for the situations that she was able to put her judge aside - "When I went back to polish, I found there wasn't that much to fix or change. A remarkable amount of my first-draft material withstood the test of later scrutinity. " (Cameron, 1998, p. 19)

Therefore, it comes the point for us to reflect, to consider, that we will need to separate progressing from judgement to avoid the drama in the point of view of Julia Cameron. Judgement in the way is never a good judgement and can be, indeed, a drama. 

### References 

* Cameron, J. (1998). The right to write. TarcherPerigee.

* Y Combinator. (2016, October 25). Marc Andreessen at Startup School SV 2016[video]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NEOR0AJsziE









### Cases of roles of an identity 


<!--

* Version - v2.1 

* link to - 430_self_staging.txt

* Situation - You can enter places that can take you there. 
* Complication - You can join the crowd with positivisn, energy. 

* Tag - power dynamics
* tag - communication 
* tag - 

* Chatgpt - https://chat.openai.com/share/2cca3573-5c8a-4526-8afe-1498acabdd7d

* [ Add citation ] Melissa Nightingale, super hero cape. 

## References

Steve Blank at MAP14. (Published on Mar 13, 2014.) MAP14 Public Forum: Steve Blank [video]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UFx2CQUTpYo

Nightingale, M. (2016). Why it’s a Mistake to be a Startup Superhero. Medium. Recuperado de https://medium.com/the-copour/why-its-a-mistake-to-be-a-startup-superhero-e221b0969ec9

User Innovation: A Path to Entrepreneurship. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) on edX. Recuperado de https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LpBSY9_RyCg

von Hippel, E. (2005). Democratizing Innovation. The MIT Press. DOI: https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/2333.001.0001


-->

Todo empreendedor irá fazer algo com um objetivo ou causa. Chegamos neste estágio porque queremos mudar algo no mundo ou uma vida melhor. Existem motivações e sonhos, já sabemos. Mas também, no momento que colocamos uma semente nesse terreno, estamos não só esperando mas estamos modelando nossas identidades como empreendedores. Até aí tudo bem. O problema, complicação, é que estamos na busca de suporte. 

Vamos refletir sobre a necessidade de regular auto-estima que é natural das pessoas; mas como a ideia de regular auto-estima está também atrelada a uma identidade que pode ser inventada e está projetada como sendo identidade no futuro baseada na expectativa de sucesso. E como que se envolver com essa identidade pode fazer o empreendedor cair em pegadinhas, que lhe custarão tempo; e pode ajudar a de fato destruir aidentidade real da pessoa, a experiência, criando frustrações e falta de energia.

Neste estudo, abordaremos primeiramente o caso de Mianmar, no qual um protagonista, após sair da prisão, conquista fama que desencadeia o caos na nação. Esse exemplo ilustra vividamente como nosso meio pode atuar como um catalisador na aceleração da nossa identidade. Em um mundo cada vez mais digital, esses fenômenos ocorrem com mais frequência e rapidez, revelando uma realidade alternativa moldada pelas conexões que estabelecemos e as narrativas que criamos.

Em seguida, aprofundaremos na questão implícita de identidade no empreendedorismo. Através de uma reflexão sobre essa ideia de identidade empreendedora, buscamos evidências de que a identidade é não apenas um fenômeno, mas também uma premissa essencial para a ação de empreender. Vamos também explorar as experiências de personalidades da indústria, considerando os riscos inerentes a esse processo, que exigem uma consciência e uma atenção maiores à medida que moldamos nossa identidade e trajetória.

#### Fame  

<!-- 

* Chatgpt - https://chat.openai.com/share/2cca3573-5c8a-4526-8afe-1498acabdd7d

--> 

Em livro "A Máquina do Caos: Como as Redes Sociais Reprogramaram Nossa Mente e Nosso Mundo", Max Fisher (2023) relata a história de um monge chamado Wirathu, que foi catapultado para a fama em Mianmar após o país emergir de um longo período de isolamento e abraçar a Internet e as redes sociais. A ascensão de Wirathu e sua habilidade de influenciar uma nação recém-conectada ilustram a relação intrincada entre conectividade, identidade e o poder potencialmente destrutivo de uma realidade alternativa não contestada.

<!-- 
Fisher, M. (2023). A Máquina do Caos: Como as Redes Sociais Reprogramaram Nossa Mente e Nosso Mundo. Todavia.
--> 

A história de Wirathu começa com um passado sombrio, confinado a um ambiente de ódio durante sua prisão. Contudo, seu país natal, Mianmar, passou por transformações significativas durante sua detenção, incluindo a adoção generalizada da Internet e das redes sociais, em grande parte graças a uma parceria com os Estados Unidos. Inspirado por líderes do Vale do Silício e pelo ex-presidente Barack Obama, Mianmar fez uma rápida transição para a era digital.

Como resultado, a Internet - particularmente plataformas como Facebook e YouTube - tornou-se um palco para Wirathu se comunicar com seguidores e aumentar sua influência. Segundo Fisher, Wirathu desfrutou de uma popularidade que impulsionou sua comunicação com o mundo de maneira inimaginável antes da era da Internet. Antes, ele teria tido que viajar pelo país para espalhar suas palavras e ganhar adeptos.

Nas redes sociais, no entanto, as palavras de Wirathu eram amplificadas pelos próprios usuários, propulsoras de uma narrativa enviesada. Ele "acusava a minoria muçulmana mianmarense de crimes horrendos, misturando boatos com invencionices" (Fisher, p.55), gerando uma realidade alternativa que se tornou preocupantemente mainstream graças ao seu status de celebridade.

Fisher destaca que as pessoas de Mianmar foram apresentadas ao Facebook em um estado já desenvolvido, criando uma espécie de explosão digital. Consequentemente, à medida que os usuários se engajavam nas redes sociais, construíam ou reforçavam suas identidades. A popularidade e o eco dentro do grupo de suporte tornaram-se evidências da verdade, alimentando um viés de confirmação que ignorava qualquer contra-argumento.

Os usuários, portanto, passaram a interpretar a popularidade de uma postagem ou figura como Wirathu como uma validação de suas crenças e percepções, fortalecendo sua identidade e, ao mesmo tempo, criando um ciclo de confirmação de viés que amplificava a narrativa alternativa. Em um episódio notável, essa dinâmica culminou em ataques violentos à minoria muçulmana, motivados por informações disseminadas através das redes sociais.

O caso de Wirathu e Mianmar, como descrito por Fisher, destaca o poder e o perigo das redes sociais em uma sociedade recém-conectada. O que antes eram fragmentos de crenças sem confirmação passou a ser, na era digital, validação em massa de uma identidade e narrativa alternativa, proporcionando aos usuários um sentido distorcido de realidade e moralidade. Isso ilustra a urgência de se abordar a disseminação de desinformação e ódio nas redes sociais para garantir um futuro digital mais seguro e inclusivo.

### Identification with a problem 

Empreender é uma atividade que envolve não apenas uma motivação comercial, mas também a paixão por uma causa que se quer ver mudada. Essa motivação é central no fenômeno da "Inovação do Usuário" (User Innovation), onde o empreendedor se vê intrinsecamente ligado à causa que defende. Tanto o trabalho de Eric von Hippel em "Democratizando a Inovação" (2005) quanto o curso "User Innovation: A Path to Entrepreneurship" no MITx no edX ressaltam essa premissa, enfatizando que "a inovação frequentemente começa com pessoas reais resolvendo seus próprios problemas" (MIT, 2015). Este conceito incentiva os empreendedores a se envolverem profundamente com as causas que defendem, alimentando tanto sua paixão como sua motivação para criar soluções inovadoras e disruptivas.

<!--

User Innovation: A Path to Entrepreneurship. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) on edX. Recuperado de https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LpBSY9_RyCg

von Hippel, E. (2005). Democratizing Innovation. The MIT Press. DOI: https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/2333.001.0001

--> 

Como indicado nesta vídeo introdução do curso, invenções como basquete, braille, dentre outras e até soluções tecnológicas como Dropbox, foram invenções que surgiram a partir de necessidade real, ou das dores. Em outras palavras, causas próprias. Essa premissa, na visão de Eric von Hippel, está por todo lado e é um fenômeno. 

### A calling 

O renomado Steve Blank, pioneiro do movimento lean [^steveblanklean] e criador do processo intitulado Customer Discovery (2005), quando entrevistado sobre uma única ideia de conselho para fundadores, reveleu na entrevista em vídeo: 

> "Ser fundador não é um emprego, é um chamado... isto não é apenas um trabalho. As chances de você ganhar dinheiro aqui, em comparação com trabalhar no McDonald's, é uma aposta muito melhor que você ganhará mais dinheiro em sua carreira trabalhando no McDonald's. Você precisa fazer o que está fazendo porque ama, porque não consegue pensar em nada melhor para fazer com sua vida. E se esse não for o caso, não faça isso porque serão 10 ou 20 anos miseráveis. Se você está olhando para enriquecer como os garotos do Facebook, ou os garotos do Google, ou seja lá qual for a startup quente do momento, esse é o motivo errado para fazer isso. Se você está perseguindo o dinheiro, eu garanto, quanto mais você o persegue, mais ele se afasta."
> 
> (Steve Blank em MAP14, 13 de Março de 2014, 34m33s - Tradução nossa)

<!-- 

> "Founders is not a job, is a calling… this is not some job. The odds of you making money, in here; versus working at McDonalds, it’s a much better bet that you will be making more money in your career working at McDonalds. You need to do what you are doing because you love it, because you can’t think of anything better to do with your life. And if that is not the case, don’t do this because it’s going to be a miserable 10 or 20 years. If you are looking at getting rich like the Facebook boys, or the Google boys, or whatever the hot startup is now, that is the wrong reason to do it. If you are chasing the money, I will guarantee you, the more you chase it, the further away is goes." 
> 
> (Steve Blank at MAP14, Mar 13, 2014, 34m33s)

Steve Blank at MAP14. (Published on Mar 13, 2014.) MAP14 Public Forum: Steve Blank [video]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UFx2CQUTpYo

--> 

[^steveblanklean]: Steve Blank é um renomado empresário e acadêmico reconhecido por ser um dos pioneiros do movimento Lean Startup. Blank, juntamente com Eric Ries, ajudou a definir e propagar a filosofia Lean Startup, que propõe a criação de empresas e produtos sob condições de extrema incerteza. Seu trabalho, caracterizado pelo "desenvolvimento de clientes" e pela ideia de "saia do prédio", é um pilar fundamental desta metodologia. Blank enfatiza a importância da aprendizagem validada, o desenvolvimento iterativo de produtos e a resposta rápida às necessidades dos clientes como princípios chave para a inovação em startups.

Assim, podemos reconhecer que entre casos de sucesso e ideias grandiosas, há muitas invenções e inovações atribuídas a fundadores que se viram envolvidos em uma luta por uma causa. No entanto, também existem muitos empreendedores que, mesmo sem uma causa tão forte, ainda se sentem em uma missão ou estão em processo de formação de suas identidades. Embutida na premissa de Steve Blank - de que o chamado é necessário - está também a ideia de que neste chamado, o fundador se torna vítima das projeções de futuro que faz em relação ao que faz, bem como vítima da identidade projetada. Isso pode parecer exagerado, mas as ações atreladas à pressão da identidade ocorrem no dia a dia e podem se manifestar em coisas simples, que passariam despercebidas.

### A superhero

Como exemplo, podemos considerar a experiência de Melissa Nightingale, que compartilhou em seu artigo, "Why it’s a Mistake to be a Startup Superhero" (2016), o perigo de tentar ser um "super-herói" em uma startup. Durante sua jornada, Melissa viu-se tão comprometida com seu trabalho que, em uma noite em particular, permaneceu no escritório até tarde da noite, esperando por colegas que haviam sido presos em um protesto. Ela estava disponível para qualquer eventualidade, seja uma chamada, a necessidade de uma fiança ou a recuperação de equipamentos. Tão cansada, ela improvisou uma cama com camisetas grandes e dormiu no chão do escritório.

No entanto, ela reconhece que muitas das ações e sacrifícios que fez, vistas como heroicas no momento, não eram necessárias. Ela estava, de certa forma, vítima de sua identidade projetada e das projeções de futuro que tinha para a empresa. E mesmo que ela acreditasse estar ajudando seus amigos, muitas de suas ações contribuíam mais para a manutenção de uma identidade de "super-heroína" do que para o crescimento sustentável da empresa.

Melissa também destaca em seu artigo como a cultura das startups incentiva essa confusão entre trabalho e vida social. Ela escreve: "A tecnologia é particularmente boa em criar condições que normalizam essa linha tênue. Entre álcool no escritório, bebidas depois do trabalho, saídas externas, passeios e eventos, pode parecer que uma série de suas necessidades sociais são bem atendidas durante o horário de trabalho" (Nightingale, 2016, tradução nossa).

Isso reforça que além da questão da identidade dos empreendedores, há também o elemento da pressão social. A necessidade de ser aceito, a dedicação ao trabalho, o sentimento de pertencimento - todos esses fatores podem levar a um comprometimento excessivo que vai além da identidade profissional. É um desafio identificar quando o investimento no trabalho passa a ser prejudicial, não só para o indivíduo, mas também para o coletivo. É bastante provável que a Melissa do futuro tivesse dificuldade em convencer a Melissa do passado de que dormir no escritório e gastar energia desnecessariamente poderiam de fato prejudicar seus colegas, pois ela não estava descansando adequadamente.

<!-- 

Referência:
Nightingale, M. (2016). Why it’s a Mistake to be a Startup Superhero. Medium. Recuperado de https://medium.com/the-copour/why-its-a-mistake-to-be-a-startup-superhero-e221b0969ec9

-->


### Identities in the mature grown up scenario 


Muitos empreendedores de sucesso criaram empresas que tomaram novos rumos e de fato encontraram felicidade nesse estado da evolução. Disso não precisa muito ser dito pois todo mundo se dá direito a viver novas paixões. Ainda, não é incomum a arte se tornar medíocre mas o artista estar contente com a nova arte uma vez que ela encontra o mundo. Talvez isso explique autores, como cantores, que descobrem ou esbarram em mercados e se encantam com seus trabalhos medíocres, vivem momentos de fama, vivem felizes e com isso propagam suas artes.

Mas nessa interação com o mundo, no confronto com mudanças, a identidade criada pelo empreendedor também encontra o descontentamento, quando não evolui, podendo até morrer; assim é percebida, sentida, porque o criador é o corresponsável por sua identidade formada, seu trabalho anterior.

Andy Grove, em Only the Paranoid Survive (p.xxx) explica uma situação crítica que vivida por times de liderança de grandes empresas que passam por uma situação intitulada de ponto de inflexão. O ponto de inflexão é quando uma empresa estabilizada, que tem um produto ou serviço bem relacionado no mercado, encontra uma força desestrutura o equilíbrio do produto ou serviço. A maioria das empresas que vivem os pontos de inflexão simplesmente não sobrevivem pois as forças atuantes as impactam de forma brutal. Pode-se imaginar a entidade-empresa, na praia ensolarada, quando as ondas começam a mudar mas não se percebe o tsunami que vem para levar tudo. Nesses momentos, às vezes décadas que antecipam o tsunami, os times de gestão sentem sensações tão difíceis comparáveis com as sensações que as pessoas sentem quando perdem uma pessoa querida — com efeitos comportamentais típicos como autodefesa, negação, escapismo, dentre outras.

Tanto na jornada do ponto de inflexão das grandes corporações, quando na jornada do empreendimento mais jovem, cabe ao empreendedor ou ao time de liderança trabalhar na busca da verdade e não na reafirmação do estado da arte atual. Nesse sentido, é importante coragem porque líderes bons são aqueles que se colocam também a prova, se deixam na posição de vulnerabilidade que é libertadora.

Ninguém quer, no final das contas, ser pego de surpresa por um tsunami seja devido a insatisfação de clientes ou forças atuantes externas como competição, regras do mercado que mudaram, etc.






In this section we will bring the reflection by Andy Grove, the late CEO of Intel, that made an elaboration about the states of emotion of executives driving large organizations in a comparisong with the phases of grief. 




## Transcending the identity 

Por outro lado, alguns empreendedores, seja depois de aprenderem batendo a cabeça ou porque refletem mais amplamente a relação, se colocam como agentes mais neutros — eles preservam a paixão pela arte, ou o estado atual da arte, mas se vêem igualmente apaixonados pelo processo mais amplo, por exemplo por buscar verdades.

Talvez para esses a identidade que lhes guia está mais adiante, em construção, no futuro; e não se jogam, não se abraçam tão fortemente ao estado da arte atual, não se ancoram; o barco está livre. Quando permitem essa liberdade, eles podem olhar para suas artes com um olhar mais suave — sabem que estão apaixonados pelo estado atual mas sabem que a arte consiste em trabalhar a arte, às vezes deixar para trás, ou talvez deixar a arte ser medíocrizada pelo mundo - acontece e em casos pode ser bom.

Therefore, it is implied that they are in also in a quest to make the vision a reality, to bring to the world. But we still have to face the the problem of passion, and love, and how our leadership identity can affect our values and make us to make decisions such as decisions that take us in a bad direction. Thus, with the recognition of the problem, or complexity, of fusion, and deviations of the truth for a solution, or even being able to engage the performers, assuming the case makes sense, the escape hatch might exist in the very suggestion of the composer whose the job has to do with transcendence from the original artist that had discover to a a new artist that helps the early team to see the vision and support the growth, or the evolution of the vision. Thus, with that in mind we can find first a peaceful space that we must acknowledge that a lot from that "fusion reaction" is a heat that can also create confusion - there might be chaos in the growth which deserves the recognion that things might be shaky and which will affect the identity of the visionary as in might also create moments of "that is it, this is who I am," which is the very symption of a success but that can turn out to be condition that deserves a reflection as it might provoke the person into the situation of being a know-it-all or where the humble characterization ceases to exist in the face of what is next which is the actual necessity to grow. 

In a previous chapter, especifically in the section Infinite Apprentice, we have considered the advice from Brian Chesky and Reid Hoffman, the idea of the infinite learner, which brought up the challenges of a leader accross the growth stages. Brian reminded us that is not like one becoming more skilled in an art; and instead it has more to do with having to learn a new sport. Brian might be a good example that the infinite apprentice is connected with the an inner and humble spirit that enables transformation. For us, is a reminder to keep that fire on, the fire of being humble which opens the opportunity through the discovery phase, which they don't know fully yet how things are going to grow and how the realization will unfold. 

But what comes from the this space for transcendence is really about the vision for how the discovery can find its place, how it can growth, with a system in place, with the performers to support, and that idea necessarily involves the growth of the individual, the transcendence of the identity, towards the identity of the leader, or in the words of Steve Blank, the role of a composer. Steve Blank recognized that founders find a vision on their paths, they are carriers of a call as much as they are onto a call: 

> "Founders fit the definition of a composer: they see something no one else does. And to help them create it from nothing, they surround themselves with world-class performers. This concept of creating something that few others see – and the reality distortion field necessary to recruit the team to build it – is at the heart of what startup founders do. It is a very different skill than science, engineering, or management. Entrepreneurial employees are the talented performers who hear the siren song of a founder’s vision. Joining a startup while it is still searching for a business model, they too see the promise of what can be and join the founder to bring the vision to life. Founders then put in play every skill which makes them unique – tenacity, passion, agility, rapid pivots, curiosity, learning and discovery, improvisation, ability to bring order out of chaos, resilience, leadership, a reality distortion field, and a relentless focus on execution – to lead the relentless process of refining their vision and making it a reality." Blank, S. (2011, March 31).

Steve really touches the point of transcendence that embraces possibility, that unlocks the opportunity ahead, and supports the founders to not be trapped by any identity in a given moment, such as to be enamorated with an idea. 

What if, the thought could be turned into as "We are just starting" again. Perhaps that is a way to escape the negative side of the calling. This escape hatch opens the way for growth, for the full realization, and towards leadership. But it isn't easy to see from outside what we do. For that, we need to first acknowledge that it is important - first step - and then with spirit of a true entrepreneur - volunteering to learn - we step up into to find our answers. In a way, the entrepreneur is a generator of an art, it becomes the art in progress in itself, thus she needs to become the curator of its arts. 

<!-- 

Blank, S. (2011, March 31). Entrepreneurship is an Art not a Job. Steve Blank. https://steveblank.com/2011/03/31/entrepreneurship-is-an-art-not-a-job/

--> 

### We can change our goggles 

<!-- 

The following whole section is from https://medium.com/startup-check-in/let-there-be-light-our-ancestor-entrepreneurs-and-your-next-startup-ideas-cc64c4573bb8 

--> 

When Patrick Collison was invited to talk about his fast-growing company at the Technology-enabled Blitzscaling classes, instructor John Lilly pointed out that “he walked in with a book made of paper, which is always very exciting.” Further down the interview, John wonders why he has so much interest in history.

For Patrick, it’s a way to cheat. Everyone else ignores all the good ideas from history, and so you can just be much smarter by just, you know — you could just try to think all these incredibly original thoughts by sort of sitting down and staring at the wall for days on end — or you can sort of cheat by just, you know, I mean they are, in fact, written down in books that you can just read. (Patrick Collison — Greylock Partners, 2015, 11:17)

Patrick’s point almost passed without myself noticing what is so special. But it turns out that I was reading an amazing history book - The Power Makers, by historian Maury Klein - at the time, which helped me to reflect and consider why entrepreneurs should read about history such as history of technology, history of entrepreneurs, and more. 

When great historians drag us back in time, they help us better understand how factors, such as the external environment, such as period and the cultural environment, have an effect in entrepreneur’s decisions and goals. It’s like you are transported into the protagonists but also giving the protection so that you are not lost like a protagonist. The protection is the space of opportunity to reflect about the currents of the time, the factors influencing, challenges, and more. 

It provoke us into questioning things like what brings us to come up with ideas? Is it pain? Or love? Or a major obstacle on their way? Is it a vision or an epiphany, after he had long years of thinking and living through challenges first-hand? What made them pursue a life of entrepreneurship? what factors contributes for us to persevere for decades?

Connecting the dots leading to innovation. The view from above, or from the cockpit with a narrator using the time capsule, might also give us the view of hot the dots are connected, for how inventors bring their ideas to market: from the background, to how the idea first appeared, moving to how they evolved into an early product, showing the potential pitfalls or how ideas are brought to the market.

It’s like a view from the above that conciliates how external factors are influential to entrepreneurship. What pitfalls we can find? What obstacles appears in front of us? What are the conditions that can favor the further development of our goals? Will the environment be friendly in the short, medium and long run?

It’s great to learn about successes. But historians will also tell you about the failures; and more, the failures of first movers, such as the life and death of inventors and entrepreneurs that could not bring their ideas as they have envisioned, and the potential later realization, by others, of what those first movers had envisioned. This level of contrast help entrepreneurs to better understand a macro view for how inventors and inventions correlate and collaborate in the long run and the leadership compoment that mad things to become real. 

Consider the situation of John Fitch which is credited as one of the inventors of the commercial steamboat service. His product, Perseverance, was launched in 1790 as a commercial steamboat service but didn't do well and was abandoned. 15 years later, as history shows, a successfully implemented solution was brought by Robert Fulton, that was a bit less inventor and more of an assembler and able to focus on the service. 
 
> *“Fitch advertised the service heavily and the boat performed admirably — going five hundred miles before suffering mechanical problems — but the passengers did not come. In desperation, the partners offered free food and drinks on board, but every voyage continued to lose money. What had proven to be technological triumph turned out to be a commercial failure, and the service was abandoned after that first summer. His investors backed away, and Fitch eventually found himself nearly penniless once again.”* (Klein, 2009, p. 46)

<!-- 

## References

Klein, Maury. (2009). The power makers : steam, electricity, and the men who invented modern America. Bloomsbury Press. First U.S. edition.

--> 

<!-- ref 

https://medium.com/founder-staging/draft-essay-an-entrepreneurs-reality-check-on-the-insight-the-product-and-the-market-d3adfddc6833
--> 

Reading how amazing inventions were born helps us soften our minds and better recognize how much biased we are, how humble we should be. Consider the situation of Ampere and Coulomb which were convicted about the lack of relationship between electricity and magnetism, leading to the general acceptance that no relationship existed between these areas. Such belief persisted for about 20 years, when suddenly however an unknown professor hits a discovery by chance: It was during an experiment with his students when professor Oersted were melting wires and noticed that a compass moved every time the electricity was being turned on/off.

After such discovery Oersted published a paper. While Ampere priorly did not believe in such relationship, this was a real experiment, therefore easy to replicate. From that moment, Ampere not only accepted but he immediately started contributing to this new field in a matter of two months.

<!-- reference 

Klein, Maury. (2009). The power makers : steam, electricity, and the men who invented modern America. Bloomsbury Press. First U.S. edition.

--> 

In the above passage, new opportunities appeared after that irrefutable observation of effects of the physical world, enabling the status-quo of scientists to be dropped quickly. They other words, they had to accept change as their environment was changing. 

Productizing an idea depends on many factors such as vision and engineering capacity. But it won’t necessarily mean your target customer is ready to accept the proposed and envisioned product. And even if they are, it does not mean that all the forces in the future will favor your product to enter and sustain itself in the market.

For Michael Dearing, lecturer and investor at Harrison Metal, founders should evaluate themselves and understand the differences between coming up with an insight, developing a product, and developing a whole business:

> *"First you have to have an insight, a technical insight. Second you have to turn that insight into a product, and third you have to, hopefully God willing, turn that product into a business. Those are about as different sets of pursuits with very little in common with each other. And so if you energized by the idea of coming up with a technical insight and then moving to productization and then moving to the business building phase, that journey will be satisfying and exciting to you. If you find yourself totally in love with the technical insight manufacturing process, that is a real problem. And then you end up having science projects, not companies. If you find yourself endlessly prototyping and tinkering with the product without regard to the business economics, then that’s a warning flag as well."* (Michael Dearing, Greylock Partners, October 2015, 47:47)

<!-- 

Reference

Michael Dearing. Greylock. (2015, October 8). Blitzscaling 03: Michael Dearing on Capitalism, Creativity, and Creative Destruction [video]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3vCdfa_aeI8

--> 
