## Praising Our Kids (and Ourselves) for Navigating the Sea of Technology

* Chatgpt - https://chat.openai.com/share/40e332c4-d37b-46b9-9b56-e7031dfe34b2

We live in an era where the speed of our actions is often celebrated over the value of our actions. Skills of interacting with technologies, such as those of the digital world, are now seen as a mark of sophistication that obscures the importance of experiences less tied to the digital world. We look at those who manipulate the technological and digital as almost magicians, we become captivated. But this serves as a basis for us to question the metrics by which we measure our success.

Consider a situation I recently saw when having a coffee in Venice. I heard one of the waitresses proudly sharing that "my son created a WhatsApp group for the family". She radiated happiness, a contagious feeling that, had I been in her circle of family or colleagues, I would also be partaking in. But, observing from the outside, I noticed a peculiar aspect of the celebration. The emphasis seemed to fall more on the fact that the child had managed to navigate the technology and create the group, than on the end goal - family communication. The little one did nothing wrong, of course, he was just exploring the digital world within his reach. However, the way the mother assessed success - focused on technological tools and processes - highlighted a worrying trend that could reflect in her own way of entrepreneurship.

Perhaps it is the adults' lack of familiarity with the digital world that results in this skewed perception. Even though that child didn't make a big effort, to the adult it's complex, it even makes us think that we should stop to learn, that we should have curiosity and energy, the energy and sense of curiosity that a child has. In this case, creating a WhatsApp group is seen as a significant achievement. However, the question to be asked is: are we celebrating the right skill?

Reflecting on this situation, I couldn't stop thinking about how the same logic applies to our entrepreneurial world - when we launch our entrepreneurial child on the way to our dream of innovating. Often, when we are at the forefront of innovation projects, we spend a large part of our energy navigating technology and processes, rather than focusing on the final problem solution and the value we bring to the world.

When we are at the forefront of the mission, let's say in front of a new project, like the goal of innovating; what we put for the mission is normally something to be done by this special person. As if we were dressing our being in a spacesuit so that he or she can handle the new space, technological and process-wise. It's as if our hero being launched is being judged by his ability to enter exactly this space that we don't know. In other words, we feed our "child" and give them permission to navigate the sea of processes, the sea of technologies.

A devastating consequence is that we are preparing ourselves to measure our progress, our pilot activities, the same way we measure what our children would do: By their ability to perform as they navigate technology and processes, their ability to stack blocks on top of blocks, to surf the wave of processes, models, systems.

At the end of the day, what we should really be celebrating are the values and end goals we are trying to achieve, not the dexterity with which we navigate the tools we use to get there. We must be careful not to let our admiration for speed and efficiency overshadow the importance of the intrinsic value of what we are trying to achieve. After all, it's the value, not the speed, that creates a lasting and significant impact.