# O caminho para o sucesso não é execução as we know it 

<!-- 

v2.1 

* Abstract - prompt, abstract this text plus goals from the intro, and make a book side note that goes on the flip of cover sheets of books. How you call those pages with summaries that covers the book? 

* thanks - Fabricio 

* Review Julia Cameron citation, 
* Review Robert McKee citation which refers to the prior citation we already used in 750_urgency_to_please.txt 
* Review reference to OKR, check if it is a process.
* Review footnote steveblank again / steveblankfootnote2, which relates to 020_rainbow_grayscale.txt 

--> 

Defining winning is a great way to help you check if you are serious about entrepreneurship. I will put upfront, I will give it straight, our version of winning here perhaps you already know. It is not about winning, in the way we might normally engage with that idea, the kind of winning that we sometimes seek, when we are trying to control the outcome. I respect that the idea of going for something with goal set and that putting an effort for that is key - there is nothing wrong there. But there is another kind of winning that is more complex and applicable to the entrepreneurial endeavor of one and their team. Perhaps a colder sort of winning, not so hot. The winning I am referring to is a healthy state for your entrepreneurial life, beyond your immediate entrepreneurial goal of now. 

The ideas presented in this book - which I like to call them moments for reflection - were crafted to help you with that journey, that viewpoint, of a healthy and conscious state of being to support your life. Therefore, we want to focus in our beings as supporters for the projects of now but without losing ties with the projects of after. There is no way to advance with entrepreneurship without facing the reality that you need to be around, as things change in front of you. What I care about, that helps me to support this line of conduct, is that I care about you and want you to be around, winning. 

I want you to advance your life, to improve yourself on the way, to improve your team, and your organization. Therefore, it is a conscious winning, an enlighted winning, a winning idea. And with that, to help the world with your energy, alive. As you engage with teams, I want you to do it in a way that they shall be interested in staying around, you. As you launch your ideas into the world, I also want you to do it in a way that people are helping, you.

As we seek for the winning condition of a human being, I want to start with the story of how I end up working at a well-known Silicon Valley company, a few Silicon Valley chapters before the Silicon Valley as we know it. Those were the days of the Silicon Valley of the browser days [^siliconvalleyofbrowserdays]. Before I arrived in Silicon Valley I was a sort of not so normal student. Seeing by collegues as creative, wearing an unusual outfit, always in the lab. I got in in 1993, when the movie Jurrassic Park was out. At the same time the Internet was also fresh. So I had the reasons to be in the lab and not to pay attention to the classes of the Computer Science course. Then later I was sort of invited to focus and complete, as opposed to leave university, when I was approaching 8 years, by 2000. I did a lot of things in there, made too many friends, had fun and also did some of the stuff that brought me the job at the company, at the time well-known, called Netscape. When I joined Netscape I might have normalized myself. There were too many new things, and excitement, and new systems in place keeping me in the line. So I would say that a bit of normalization started to happen. And it makes sense, doesn't? Except that it also happens that we enter work environments and start to learn how to climb our way using the stones in a big wall, as opposed to challenge the stones. 

[^siliconvalleyofbrowserdays]: The phrase "Silicon Valley of the browser days" refers to the timeframe during the late 1990s to early 2000s when the web was in its early stages of development and the Silicon Valley was at the center of it. This period is noted for the creation and enhancement of web browsers, marking the dawn of a new digital era. Pioneering tech companies based in Silicon Valley, such as Netscape with its Navigator browser, played significant roles in shaping the internet as we know it today. During this time, the evolution of web browsers led to a shift from the static HTML pages of the early Internet to the dynamic, interactive web experiences we are familiar with now.

The sort of analogous situation, or pattern, that happens with many when they face the reality of jobs, is that they embrace certain ways of operation that are tied to the culture. But the sort of embrace the mechanics of it to a point that what they do, and how they do, is affected by the mechanics. 

That is nothing much wrong about that except that we seem to be captivated by the operational model which eventually seems to prevent us to do come out with new ideas when it is needed. The thing with the normal course of jobs is perhaps not much different of what the screenwriting professor Robert McKee said about the situation that young screenwriters face, after they learn how to use cliches, which is that they sell their soul, as in there is no return. 

It is wasn't different for me. I got a job, as I had talents of a new kind. Then I found a place where people seem to climb using other skills. And I sort tried to figure the general function of climbing. Actually I try to do that on my own, trying to hack my way up the system, or trying to find legit way to play the game. The system it itself were telling me to operate like that, with things such as performance reviews. By the way, the system recognized my talents, the sort of things that somehow we bring from the outside. But it is as if the system does not want to mess with that too much. I once received a compliment of a employee that said "Marcio, whatever you are smoking, please keep doing that."  

But that compliment also is revealing of something else. That we don't care where and what is your well - your well of creative thinking that makes you unique. Do that and come back. During the week, we expect you to vomit that thing onto our system and we expect that you can normalize those things into our products. 

So the phenomenon, in the workplace, and it is also everywhere in our system of working, is that we run the risk of entering into certain "execution tracks," such as when we get a job. And then we run X amoung of years following an execution routine that does not involve the time to visit, or to enter, into that other experience that brought us to be who we were, before we have entered the execution track (or got job) in the first place. 

This is when we start to lose that connection as the result of just being there. As a result of just working. No time to fly towards the sun and come back - if you were a birdman. No time to step over the stones that makes one unique. We follow trails because it is how things works, the survival route, the promotion route, it's the only way, and there are other names to it. 

And that model of thinking, a phenomenon, it's everywhere even for the one that thinks she or he is working alone, such as the job of writing. According to Julia Cameron, in The Right to Write, p. 66, a writer that is committed to be a writer pull things to write from a well. As in the source. And as a result of their success, pulling things from the well which is part of the job of writing, they find that their well goes empty. 

It could be that a beginner writer does not even know how dependent she is of that well, her source. That place, if she knew well enough how it works, she would think of it as sacred. But like for most of us, beginners in the craft of creation, it could be that that she went there many times, that visited the well, and then her body of experience brought her to the readiness level: She brought it out, as writing, to the world. But then, with that, it is like we get involved with the mechanism that we think is the mechanism for bringing things to the world, such as to pages, products that can be consumed by others. 

This part of the process, which is science and art it itself, may not help us to see that we have visited that well in the first place. We might think: How I came to write about that? How was I able to bring that product to the world? We would think, if we had the time to ask that question. And we are briefly teased to reflect about that. Such as when one is about to give a compliment, as they did to when I did a great job, with the "whatever you are smoking please keep doing that" and the more or less exciting variations of that. But then, as this example shows, these words are strong enough to create such a wall between the well and our jobs. In other words, most of the work environments don't have time to deal with our sources, with what makes us unique, with what brought us there in the first place. And again, the more we fall into the process of focusing in the outcome, the more we can't see that output is tied to input, the more we disconnect from our well, the well we didn't know in the first place. 

In other words, as a job unfolds, we don't have the time anymore, to talk about that well, or to visit that well. That is too blurry. It smells like smoke. Such subject simply can't be part of the conversations of the job. And it is all around because it is a process in us, to not talk about that. And it is also something we don't fully grasp what goes on there. We do not know how our machine - as humans - fully operate. We know that it does things and we sort of try to rationalize parts of it. And even after the fact that many good doers, such as good writers and good producers, are telling us about the bits and pieces of how it works, still they do not give a straight and logical guide with a full control about how to operate us, and control outcome. Some of the great minds that understand that well are simply saying that we depend on it to do our best work. Can you trust? Well, even if we do, we just don't have the time, not usually, not usually in the work place. We rather continue to do well, but under the terms that the job requires, as opposed to visit that other well that brought us to be who we are, the well of experiences. 

The writing life that Julia Cameron promotes, which depends on nurturing that well, touches the model that can support one towards lasting success. It might work for a writing life of a writer but also for a the entrepreneurial life of a founder. She wrote, from Right to Write: 

> *"If we are invested in a writing life - as opposed to a writing career - then we are in it for the process and not for the product. We are in it for the body of work and not for the quick hit one one well-realized piece. This means we must treat ourselves as valued athletes who must be kept in condition and not overraced or overtrained."*  (Julia Cameron, 1998, p.66)

The provocation of Julia lifts us towards the reality to help us understand a phenomenon when we start a project with a big idea but as we move we can find ourselves stalled. The more we approach the art and science of delivery the more we tend to not recognize the art and science of visiting that well. That well that we might have visited in the first place that brought us to engage with the act in the first place. We can't tell which places we have visited. Sometimes we can sort of bring the bits and pieces of it. And worse, when founders are interviewed about some good job they did, they are unable to skim the subject and really tell what brought them there in the first place. We just enter entrepreneurship with some arbitrary notions of what we did before as in "we smoked something". We enter entrepreneurship thinking that our success has nothing to do with that well. 

One may take a life before the readiness level of being able to launch something interesting. One may have visited that well, many wells, too many times. But then that one learns how to write down, or how to tell others, and start thinking that the process of putting it out is the key. Thinking that they hold a key. But eventually, with the key in hands, they might caught themselves unable to open new doors and reopening the same doors. The work situation of that is that one eventually is let go. The writer situation of that is that the writer can't write another great work. The founder situation of that is that founders start to get bored as they find that first customers didn't like their products, and the changes they produce don't seem to be as exciting as what they thought originally. Or going back to the blurry terms, the person seem to not be smoking anymore. 

The complication in there, although it starts with ourselves not knowing how to bring us into that good state, is that we don't account that time as valid time. The activity that Julia Cameron asks us to do is the sort of activity that starts with the courage because it starts alone. It can't be done with others, such as teams. Visiting the well, and visiting periodically, is about having a date with your internal artist. See where we are going here? An artist, for an entrepreneur? Although weird, perhaps everyone knows it exists somewhere, that sinister thing we can't control or know properly, that partially shows its shadow when we went out and we did something different, perhaps a moment we had with ourselves when having an experience somewhere; that helped us the next day, that changed our minds and gave us a new door to try. 

But even when we sense that we dismiss that thing as not a subject associated with our jobs. The thinking of going for it, having a date with your inner artist, starts as an absurd - it will be onerous. Alone? I can't have time for alone. It might start there or with other objections as it does not fit life as we know it. Not the working life. See, Julia Cameron wrote books for artists and writers. She wrote that for them is eroneous. Now consider for founders, entrepreneurs, and the normal workers. It's not even a subject to be considered. 

As we continue to refuse to understand how experiences affect us, we continue to operate as if we are in control, responsible beings, but we might be in fact behaving like gamblers. As in, one visited places and situations, acquired life experience somewhere, gains technical expertise, gets the job, does good, people applaud for her unique way of doing things, and the agenda continue do expect her to deliver from that unique being. She is not allowed to live any experience that is not direct tied to the act of delivery. Whatever she had, that seems to be related to talent, or creativity, is the - in normal work-job terms - her uniqueness. It comes as a cumpliment. It is a matter outside the job. Notice how we deal with this thing, this weird thing, how we put a wall there. Better to make a cumpliment. You are special. 

Work of a worker that came fresh from university into a new job, or the "work" of a team of founders that met an investor, the same. What brought you to this winning condition? Whatever you did before? Congrats and welcome to the team, let's run faster now, you can continue to use your talents, your unique voice, your unique way. Bring your talents I don't want to know what you did before. 

Which brings us to support the view of Julia Cameron, as a view that works for entrepreneurs as entrepreneurs do a craft that is like the craft of writers. The view that we support recognizes the complication that when one seeks to pursue success, they do not account the the origins of success, not properly. It is our natural inclication,for founders and writers and teams, to enter execution thinking that the "launching of things from a well" is what matters. The non linear nature for how good ideas happen, or "what goes on with that well," can't be accounted. It is not a valid subject. 

Even the best processes for managing productivity, we know by the top performing - and quite creative - companies such as Google, show signs that there is something more there. The modern version of OKR - objectives and key results, which is a process [process?] for managing how input (actions) ties with output (results) and comes with a system of evaluation against objectives - indicates two modes for operation: aspirational and commitment. The aspirational sets key results that are less precise but associated with high expectations, of a soft of higher order, aspirational. While commitment the expected key results are precise such as contact 10 customers. In other words, the aspirational key results are there to pulls us to find our ways, which allow creativity to appear the scene. But it goes as far as that. Having an aspirational key result [check if the KR is the thing that is aspirational] does not account that the performer shall visit places that fills her well. It assumes that the person is in good condition to pull things from an existing well. 

But for entrepreneurs, such as founders, we can't ignore that function, that there is a well - which we sort of know - and that you need to fill your well. You might need to face the fact that your project depends on your visits to certain places, such as dates with an artist, your inner artist. 

The situation pointed by Julia for writers is quite applicable to the journey of founders, and entrepreneurs, as founders are in a quest to deliver what wasn't written, what wasn't said, what wasn't done, or produced. As we move towards creating our products, and testing the various elements in it that may serve the needs for the world, we are depending on a creative ecosystem in us, as individuals and as teams. That because, as we have seen it, no plan survives the contact with first customers [^steveblankfootnote2], which put us in the place, in front of the necessity, to be creative again. 

[^steveblankfootnote2]: As indicated, Steve Blank suggests the idea to illustrate that entrepreneurs launch ideas first and need to adapt to the realities of the market.

What founders can't see, not as clearly as they move with the process, is that their behaviour to engage to the development of an idea has ties with what they discovered before as they got involved with experiences in the world in the first place. Which aligns with the saying "it all starts with a problem you want to solve" [^userinnovationhint]. So they move, start failing and iterating, and things seem to change somehow when the idealized concretes start to fail, as in not accepted by the judges, such as the early people that they have contacted to get feedback, and themselves or others. But as they add pour more energy, and deliver more concretes to the observers, the external world, and the world continues to not respond as expected, their movement with the process naturally pulls them into a place of executing their job without noticing that revising sources of energy (experiences that pulls creative effort) will contribute to the process. The resulting phenomenon is that is that it brings them into the state of felling stalled and having perceptions such as "we are not motivated as we were." 

[^userinnovationhint]: The concept of User Innovation (2015, May 19), and the work of Eric von Hippel, involves the idea that people modify tools or create new solutions after the fact that they want to solve real problems. 

<!-- 

MIT (Producer). (2015, May 19). User Innovation: A Path to Entrepreneurship [Video]. edX. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LpBSY9_RyCg

--> 

And worse is when we think that it is the very specific idea, as we have sort of concretized in our minds, the one we pulled from that well, which was the big thing. As in, we become to proud of being the ones that delivered, the ones that have pulled a great thing from that well, that we dismiss that we are the ones that filled the well in the first place. 

The success we seek, ultimately, is not to make us beings that somehow had stumbled in a state of well being, tht brought ourselves to pull an idea of the hat or a well, and have executed and brought to the world. As the matter has to with embracing the creative state which is a requirement for entrepreneurship, we must week to understand that success is success in the long run, that we need to nurture ourselves to be able to pull solutions from the well as much as keep experiencing and fill that well. And that such effort has to be done also at an individual level. 

<!--

COntinue to support this with the work of Maslow and entrepreneurship 

In case it seems confusing that creativity now was brought into this article about success, I want to position in in the right direction with a little help from Maslow, add more precision to make a point that the entrepreneur depends on a state of less control which basically connects with the notion of the creative state. Consider the words of Maslow:

-->
