<!--
@outline - Ax.x - Stakes are high, fears are in the language, in the enviroment, even to take us to act. 
--> 

### Put that coffee down!  





"This [project] will blow up!" Is what I once heard from my manager, shortly after I had entered the meeting room. I think that he feared a dead end, if we didn't act in a different way. Or, perhaps, he feared that weren't doing enough, or that we could put more effort, or do things in a different way, a better way, a faster way. What is interesting - now in retrospect - is my reaction. It didn't cross my mind to pause the meeting, and to offer support, to listen to him, to his actual worries, to dig further about his fears. Perhaps that inaction was one of a kind that went along with the whole mood, that context, that we were set in. The mood that gave the title of "war room" to the temporary meeting room where most of us collaborated together, managers and senior and junior developers - all together in that sacred space for getting things done. That kind of message had an impact on me, unavoidable, inescapable, an image of a future where we would not exist, our team, and consequently myself as a worker of that well-known, and well-respected, Silicon Valley company. Plus, the rent. I wouldn't be able to pay that expensive studio rent which represented about half of my salary. Plus, without a job I would not be able to say in the US anymore. I would have only 30 days to find another job. 

A few years later, back in another office space of another Silicon Valley company, I caught a yellow-colored post-it sticked to the keys of my working laptop. It was written "Things are not working yet!" Nothing signed, not written in blood, nothing to be too scary. But I got scared, perhaps from watching too many movies. I know that I couldn't think twice and I picked the post-it and ran to the vice president office. Bob happened to be who hired me. Hey, Bob, can you look at this? The minute he read the note and visualized the context, he said "this is unacceptable in America!" I won't ever forget the precision of his move - his reaction. I think that Robert were, to some extent, equalizing the situation - that complication - as in within nine seconds. 24-hours later he told me that he was not anymore working for that company. I don't know if any of that were connected - I was too frigthened to ask. Anyway, in retrospect, I think maybe he feared that the company lacked transparency, or an ethical communication. Or, perhaps, he feared that the note would cut my impulses to thrive and grow in that organization.  

With these examples, I am not saying that all employees, including managers of all levels, are primarily driven and driving by dramatic moves, using or running from fears. But it is undeniable, pérhaps primal, that fear chimes in, and that it gives us an unsetting atmosphere, one that sets the pace in many ways. Such fear which drives our movement, where are are not afraid to take a direction and to know and to fight, may appear in these lighter ways if we think of it as a fear in the language that sets us to engage with movements, as in 9 seconds. In other words, these are in many circunstances subjective but anyway impacting the by the hour movement, where the feeling of a painful outcomes is generally projected in the work setting, by a narrative, and it too generally triggers another narrative as for what to do, which may in itself provide a degree of relief to the anxiety - the question such as what to do? Thus, the calling, such as to run, is a potential path from the darkness and tigers of the working jungle. 






