<!--
@outline - Valley of Sorrow  
--> 

#### Valley of sorrow 

Investor Paul Graham created an illustration that explains a complication of the timeline, the journey, of founders as they launch their early version of their product. It is the *Trough of Sorrow*. This journey, according to Silicon Valley investor Andrew Chen, was drew by Paul Graham and his colleagues and in a nutshell consisted of stages where "first you’re excited, then you’re not, and if you stick with it, you just might make it work. It could take years. But you may fail too, you never know until you do it." The key point about that gives color is how the initial movement of excitement is followed by "then, you are not."  

In Paul Graham's version, entrepreneurs launch their products and initially gain some traction—they get media coverage and experience a sort of pre-carnival; but soon they find themselves alone, without users or customers, and no longer appear in the media. They have passed through. In this zone, many give up. Still, in the optimistic narrative, the survivors find themselves on a slow growth curve; and this is Paul Graham's advice for entrepreneurs to focus on learning and gaining real traction with their customers—the trend of "doing things that don't scale," a topic for the next section. [Check which section].

[Check if this article is redundant due to another article somewhere that also talked about Paul Graham's Valley of Sorrow]

But Paul made this forecast, based on experience, observation. Perhaps this version of the valley of sorrow came out with this drawing, this initial curve followed by a valley, a slow and arduous pilgrimage, precisely because at some point the world, the entrepreneurs, began to operate "on the wave" of previous successful models, from others. Paul Graham's valley is very clear on the first mountain.

[Figure of an ascending curve, without the valley; versus the curve with the valley. Showing the initial problem]

It can then be articulated that the problem of the valley, or relevant issue, stems from the initial urgency, in the first place - the intention to launch into the world, perhaps artificially.



