
<!--
        @outline - Corporate beast fearful (AG)
-->

#### Grown up blocky situations 




We want to feel emotions, we want to recognize fear, we want to allow ourselves to be vulnerable. These aren't  statements that we generally get busy with, or think of, in the entrepreneurial space or in the corporate arena. It sounds a bit like some touchy-feely issues [^footnote_andygrove_touchy_feely], or perhaps things for a therapy session. 

[^footnote_andygrove_touchy_feely]: In his book *Only the Paranoid Survive* (1999), Andy Grove discusses, in *Let Chaos Reign*, what he calls *The Touchy-feely Issues*, that in certain situations, particularly those faced by large corporations, managers often react emotionally to crises (p. 123) as business people are humans where their personal growth and emotions are closely tied to the identity and well-being of their business.

So a real complicated question would not even rise here, not normally, not in the work setting in general. We know that the average runner is not talking, or reflective about that, perhaps more foused in the running by the fears that drives the movement, from the threats real or not than to consider the dynamics of themselves when they are more or less fearfull, being more or less anxious, more or less inclined to supress anxiety by either facing acessing knowleldge or living the denial of it and focusing in what is known. 

Let us dig into some well-known reflections about fears, and feelings related to fears such as fear of loss, from mindful doers that went through and witnessed and reflected about the challenging space of humans operating organizations for growth. This will certainly help us to recognize fear in our language, and anxiety that takes over which take us to know more or to deny knowledge, but to value that the theme is valid and it supports our conscious view; that to be aware and to not dismiss the subject as a serious subject. The allowance for disucssions about fears, the conscious discussions about how fears which gets translated into the narratives, is in itself powerful and can be a seed for the culture that is a truth seeking culture, an activity consisting of seeking honesty.  





Andy Grove also shared a similar idea about fears as a force that motivates creativity and action—fear of losing to a competitor, fear that the product is not good enough for customers, and more. 


For Andy, there exists a sequence of emotions that is not too different from those experienced during the loss of loved ones, which can be experienced by people, like leaders in the corporate setting, in the midst of what he called "inflection points." Let us first bring about his definition of an inflection point in the context of a major organization - Intel went through a few of those but the iconic moment was the moment when Intel had to drop its identity from *Being* a memory chip manufacturing to embrace *Becoming* a microprocessor manufacturer. Since Intel survived the inflection point, then we have good thoughts from Andy to reccount. The following passage gives us a view: 

> *""* 

But then, as the major corporation is passing through that, is perhaps a reflection of what a human passes as they need to move from being and into becoming especially when they are challenged, their views, their perspectives, their views about their identities. 

He suggests a parallel between the sequence of losing a loved one and the sequence experienced in the corporate domain during an inflection point. Grove revealed that he wrote one of his books amidst one of these turbulent journeys that Intel went through around the 1980s suggesting that in that situation, he might have been escaping from recognizing the situation? Perhaps?







> *"Business people are not just managers, they are also human. They have emotions and a lot of their emotions are tied up in the identity and well-being of their businesses. If you are a senior manager, you probably got to where you are because you have devoted a large portion of your life to your trade, to your industry and to your company. In many instances, your personal identity is inseparable from your life work. So, when your business gets into serious difficulties, in spite of the best attempts of business schools and management training courses to make you a rational analyzer of data, objective analysis will take second seat to personal and emotional reactions almost every time."* 

> *"If you are a middle manager, many of the same considerations apply, but very often your job is also at stake. How your corporation succeeds in working its way through a strategic inflection point may determine what happens to your career."*

> *"A manager in a business that is undergoing a strategic inflection point is likely to experience a variation of the well-known stages of what individuals go through when dealing with a serious loss. This is not surprising because the early stages of a strategic inflection point are fraught with loss. Loss of your company's preeminence in the industry, of its identity, of a sense of control of your company's destiny, of job security and, perhaps the most wrenching, the loss of being affiliated with a winner. However, unlike the accepted model of the sequence of emotions associated with grief, i.e., denial, anger, bargaining, depression and, ultimately, acceptance, in the case of a strategic inflection point, the sequence goes more as follows, denial, escape or diversion and, finally, acceptance and pertinent action."* 

> *"Escape, or diversion, refers to the personal actions of the senior manager. When companies are facing major changes in their car business, they seem to plunge into what seem to be totally unrelated acquisitions and mergers. In my view, a lot of these activities are motivated by the need of senior management to occupy themselves respectively with something that clearly and legitimately requires their attention day in and day out, something that they can justify spending their time on and make progress in instead of figuring out how to cope with an impeding strategic destructive force. At such times, senior managers often involve themselves in feverish, charitable fundraising. A lot of outside board activities are pet projects. Take a look at a representative calendar of the CEO of a major corporation that was in the middle of a strategic inflection point, page 126. Does his allocation of time, his most precious reserves, reflect his strategic crisis? I don't think so."* 



> *"He is by no means unique, frankly, as I look back, I have to wonder if it was an accident that I've devoted a significant amount of my time in the years preceding our memory episode, years during which the storm clouds were already very evident to writing a book. As I write this, I wonder what storm clouds I might be ducking now, I'll probably know in a few years."* 



