#Introduction

When someone says "let's slow down!" it usually doesn't sound good in the work environment, where people collaborate. It sounds negative, like an alert that says "danger ahead", or gives an idea of ​​poor performance. On the other hand, "let's accelerate!" it is an idea that has a more positive tone. It is easier to hear and accept ideas such as "get there earlier", "sell more" or "deliver faster" - all of this has become normal.

Perhaps accelerating has become normal because people simply want to finish the plan that has already started - accelerating takes on an earlier move. Or, it is a consequence of the fact that people perform their tasks by comparison, with their own work, the work of others, or the competition. The truth is that in competition mode performance is really what matters. Walk faster, than the other. Deliver faster compared to the previous speed. All of this makes sense, when the strategy is defined, validated and guaranteed - just accelerate. The problem is that the urgent way has contaminated the entrepreneur's life, precisely the one who is still working on the strategy while working on his enterprise.

But modern execution has not just gotten faster because people run faster or work harder. Today, that doesn't mean much because the era of manual labor has been left behind. Today, the fast mode is supported by functions and resources that are ready, in the hands of people. Former Intel CEO Andy Grove, in * Arguing with data *, has long warned [^grovefastdata] that large companies are indoctrinated by contemporary management that suggests people argue their debates with the data already in the hands (GROVEDATA, p.116).

[^grovefastdata]: In Andy's Book, * Only the Paranoid Survive *, the quote in English is “* Contemporary management doctrine suggests that you should approach any debate and argument with data in hand. It's good advice. Altogether too often, people substitute opinions for facts and emotions for analysis. * “The warning that applies to the situation he called the Strategic Inflection Point, situations so adverse and unexpected that they confuse companies. Intel survived crisis situations of this magnitude and then was also the protagonist. In these situations, the data they anticipate may be misleading.

This mechanical way of operating is certainly efficient in daily work, mainly because we live in the information age, especially when the path is pre-mapped.

On the other hand, unexpected waves appear - new winds blow. When adverse situations are in front of the teams, they need other solutions because often what is being done needs to be reconsidered. The problem is even greater for the entrepreneur, who aims to open a space for his ideas to find the market. In the endurance of the adversities of entrepreneurship, when the fog is intense, accelerating is not the best option. To those who do, when “accelerating” is the strategy, it is better to wish good luck because one thing is guaranteed - they will enter a spiral that leads faster to a mediocre destination, that consumes, wears out and can lead to the end of the business and mainly impair the entrepreneur's ability to learn.

The famous Steve Blank addressed the fundamental question about the problem, when he revealed the * insight * (????, MAP14) he had. According to him, the precursor idea of ​​the * lean * movement, where the problem is that entrepreneurs think that their ideas can be materialized as small versions of large companies. Steve says that "startups are not small versions of large companies", that the difference between a startup and an established company is that the startup is in the search, discovery phase; which is different from the large company that has already identified its role in the market, which has a product already validated. When ideas are not validated, operating as a large company is a serious asset; since the young enterprise is under discovery and does not have unlimited resources. Much about this subject exists in the literature of startups and is also present in the middle of platforms, methodologies and frameworks in the world of startups. But even so, entrepreneurs trying to run their processes in * lean * mode, continue to fall into the traps of the world of execution, continue to be harassed or victimized by the waves of acceleration.

The question of how the entrepreneur faces this challenge, between discovery and execution, can be better addressed considering the comparison between the specialist * versus * the generalist profile. Most people are an expert because being an expert is a useful part of the gears of companies. The problem is that the entrepreneur, when operating as a specialist, will compare his work with the reference of an expert. Consider a bullet train that travels at 370 kilometers per hour. The person enters the car and the train runs to the destination. From the inside out, the seated person has the frame as the inside of the car. She notices other people's movement, getting in and out and stops at stations. From inside, the speed of the train is not noticed. It would only be, if the person was on and off the train at the same time. The generalist, in general, is more sympathetic to this idea. The specialist profile, in turn, is immersed in the experience, focusing on the potential for action in motion. The specialist is more at risk of not even asking if it all makes sense. Yet, when under pressure, the easy standard option is to make the most of it.

To make matters worse, in the 21st century and facing the hyper-connected world, there are a multitude of technologies and methods that support actions and decisions. Everything available with the promise of elevating, accelerating. The letter, which was written on the table, became an e-mail that started to be written on the computer. The e-mail, became a message sent by cell phone "typed" by a voice command, from inside the car. With that, we are all the same fast or the same slow. The speed issue only makes sense when a broader framework is taken into account. One person on horseback is faster than another on foot but slower than another on the train. If whoever is on the train, delivering a simple message, does not know of a better solution, such as the electronic message, they simply will not know because they may think they are moving fast, or worse, they can believe that accelerating generates better results.

Thus, the problem of modernity, or of all times, remains the same old problem of navigation; more than the speed problem. The mistake, or "* bug", that entrepreneurs make has more to do with anxiety and ingrained convenience. Andy Grove, in the book * High Output Management *, reminds us of an old Indian saying that if you don't know where you're going, any path will take you there.

What happens, in this interconnected and turbulent world, is that specialists are constantly besieged with faster and more modern solutions to the things they already know. Why send individualized emails when you can trigger a million emails at once? It is as if all the solutions available sound like useful, they sound like efficient solutions. Still, in this turbulent ocean, when asking for help, it is not difficult to find a multitude of sailors, experts in their fields, desperate and ready to do what they know how to do - the specialist side. The programmer programs faster, the engineer calculates faster. The tools, more automated, and the data, available earlier. In the midst of this availability, it is very easy to get on the wagon and we agree, choosing solutions that promise to deliver faster what is already known.

But it is also equally convenient to continue on the same path, precisely because the external reference of navigation is ignored. In this world, where speed can accelerate whatever the specialty, a new look is important, as getting faster to the wrong place does not only mean delay but also implies energy, resource consumption.

The world has become even more confusing, because even solutions for navigation and discovery are also besieged by ready-made solutions. The entrepreneur can participate in a * bootcamp *, enroll in an incubator and then dive into an accelerator. These are examples that accelerate and promise to resolve the entrepreneur's concerns as well. This is ** simply do ** harassment that is no longer limited to solutions for specialists. Now, the generalist side is also besieged by an overload of “* plug-and-play *” options from the urgent world. Worse, entrepreneurs cannot simply ignore these modern tools, solutions, processes and methods. All of these are the tools available, which are there to solve, if well used.

In order to run less anywhere and place smaller bets, the entrepreneur needs an approach, better suited to navigate this frustrating and stressful environment. This approach, above all, needs to come out of it, because trying to revert to the ways of others does not make the entrepreneur an effective gear to his own future. With that, it all starts with the principle of self-respect. Thus, this book raises questions of entrepreneurship so that the entrepreneur does not become a person drifting from what he believes. This principle starts with permission, to deny or give up - not necessarily to get on the “bullet train” just because other entrepreneurs do. Do not necessarily enter the club because the beat seems to be beat of the hour.

The greatest abuse of the entrepreneur is when he starts to run over his identity, when he sees that the world is different and starts to operate as the signs on the side (in the view of this book, presented as noise).

Then you will say - oh so this is another resource available that sells one more idea in the middle of the urgent world. Maybe that's the catch to the book. In the urgent, fast and turbulent world, the entrepreneur needs to move fast, but he needs strategy - his strategy. One that doesn't involve walking by walking in the shadow of the world. That is, it is not speed you want, running for running. Instead, you need to surrender, learn and grow - the meaning of this book. Here are resources and situations that do not promise to solve everything, but represent an opportunity for reflection. The idea is to strengthen the entrepreneur to counter resource overload and the noise that harasses and does not necessarily apply to his journey.

In that opportunity, with this honest walk, the goal is that the entrepreneur can focus on his most productive and happy agenda because it is a fact, the journey is difficult and uncertain. With self-respect and a conscious vision, the entrepreneur's steps become more productive and his chances are greater.

For this, below, 3 agendas are presented for reading and reflection, which the entrepreneur must do in his own time but preferably before accelerating. The first part, entitled The Urgent Entrepreneur, deals with the nature of the entrepreneur, a look inside, because it is useless to elaborate on the dangers and pranks of the urgent world without looking at habits and behaviors. With that, we enriched a basic structure of principles for actions. The second agenda, Entrepreneurship in the Urgent World, looks at the external environment, the world that has become urgent and is constantly harassing the entrepreneur with the specialist approach, * plug-and-play * solutions, and interactive platforms that demand the entrepreneur sign up and participate. Navigating this world is less accurate than knowing how to guide yourself. This will be an opportunity for reflection on the fact that, not always, the world's agenda, even if it is super efficient, is compatible with the agenda of the entrepreneur who is under construction, his goals and his dreams.

The last part is an opportunity to see the entrepreneur as the protagonist of the urgent world, in control, who takes advantage of modern tools and technologies but does not become a victim. This role suggests approaches for the entrepreneur to advance, enhancing speed through the development of a strong culture, thus curing his work team. At no time does the book suggest that the entrepreneur breaks his principles, the basic premise of the book that is rooted in the first agenda. So, come on, let's deal with the urgent entrepreneur first.
