# Thanks

I would like to thank the many people and systems that led me to write this book. There were many variables that took me to this place and when faced with writing this material. So I'll list some points and I probably forgot others because the entrepreneur's life is still chaotic. Anyway, one of the inflection points, which only made sense long after I had contact, was the experience of meeting the investor Michael Dearing, in a virtual way. I was fortunate enough, or pushed myself, to fall in front of a course entitled * Blitzscaling * [^ Blitzscaling], which was made available by Greylock Partners, a well-known venture capital firm in Silicon Valley.

Right away I was so excited that I decided to get involved in some way. I contacted former Mozilla CEO John Lilly, who worked at Greylock, and asked if I could translate the lectures as a volunteer. In a few days they sent me the subtitles in English and I started the work. Everything was going very well, the translation was flowing and so I started the work of lecture 1, lecture 2. But when I arrived at the third lecture, by Michael Dearing, I just crashed. Michael's material was a little different because he taught a class. He talked about creative destruction, about management and I confess that it complicated. I just couldn't translate. When I tried to understand more, I crashed even more. That job, which was on average costing 30 days (using a few hours a week) simply took me into a zone of curiosity and with that I blurred. In fact, the moment was so strong that I changed the direction of my idea of ​​start-up completely and I understood that the work of making subtitles should depend on a previous collaborative work that should be the work of indexing, organizing, studying the videos. It was at this moment that I had the idea of ​​FastClip, my current startup that I don't know if it will be successful, but I know that this experience of investigating videos changed my life and gave new directions. Making slides for excerpts from Michael's video I ended up visiting his website, buying books and somehow getting inspired again. Also in this same excerpt, I must thank all the creators of the Blitzscaling course: John Lilly, Reid Hoffman, Chris Yeh, Allen Blue, all the people interviewed and also the students and listeners of the course. Blitzscaling was one of the episodes that taught me that the way to accelerate towards the potential of a super company should involve a certain slowdown. The "B-side" that is obvious after seeing all the Blitzscaling is a quiet place that says that the growth of a company depends, rather, on the personal growth of the co-founders. Still, it suggests that the "B-side" of the entrepreneur's personal growth suggests an honest entrepreneur with himself, a humble person and above all an infinite apprentice.
In this section I want to take the opportunity to thank the friends who helped translate the first Blitzscaling lectures: Fred Filho, Elderclei Reami, Rael Gugelmin.

[^ Blitzscaling]: Blitzscaling classes took place in 2015 for freshmen in the CS183C course and available to everyone. Titled * Technology-enabled Blitzscaling * and organized by Reid Hoffman, John Lilly, Chris Yeh, and Allen Blue; the course brought together many entrepreneurs and leaders who were successful in scaling their companies from the initial phase, family, up to the nation phase. Read more about the Blitzscaling course at https://medium.com/cs183c-blitzscaling-class-collection/reid-hoffman-john-lilly-and-allen-blue-s-cs183c-technology-enabled-blitzscaling-class-1 -notes-a93b119a51b9

From the models above, I would like to leave a written thank you to John Lilly because an appearance by him made me enjoy entrepreneurship even more. I heard about John when I worked for Mozilla around 2005. At that time, I felt a great distance between my position and that of the CEO and simply did not know what the CEO was doing. I confess one day I was nervous when I heard him say that "he was the guy who paid the agent". I didn't like it because I found the phrase a bit crude that didn't solve my doubt. From that moment on, I kept an eye on him, with the antennas connected. Some time later I fell into a very honest "life as it is" video that I loved and made me really sympathize with John's ideas. The video was removed from the Internet but it was John arguing with a designer responsible for the design of the Firefox project. The discussion at some point became serious - tension arose around the idea of ​​execution versus objectives. The designer argued that the best solution for a design would be to have the problem already solved (he presented a metaphor that said that the perfect fill would be the idea of ​​the finished hole). What intrigued me was the way John replied, saying that he disagreed and thought that tools, even imperfect, could serve as a medium where people ended up being creative and creating solutions. When I saw the heated discussion, I ended up understanding the point of the designer, but what inspired me was the point of view of the CEO who recognized the aspect very similar to an expression used in Brazil that says that "the hole was lower". I agreed - how to know the perfect solution of things before working on them? And I thought it made perfect sense for a CEO, an executive - since the leader's job involves trusting people's creativity and allowing them to find new answers. John's way of thinking led to the idea where people collaborated and could eventually reach the conclusion of the solutions. In John's view, things didn't need to be pre-plotted with such certainty - it captivated me to endorse John and today I was able to articulate the question of having the guy who paid me as being "he is the guy who trusts in myself when I have imperfect tools that are perfect. What he said makes us feel humble.

I am not going to make this a meta-section of thank you section that brings everyone I would like to thank, because there would simply be no pages and it would make no sense to the reader. So I left only these excerpts to leave a clear message that there were certain points, which I call inflection points, that end up giving important directions in the entrepreneur's life. These points are those situations that change our path. Many of them are challenging situations, they are like problems that affect us, as if we took an arrow that leads us to walk to a proper place to take the arrow from the body - perhaps this could be the arrow of curiosity. When you are faced with certain elements, people or systems, elements that challenge your mind, that sometimes cause you pain, or challenging situations; note, these are the points that in fact have great influence on your path. When faced with these challenges of curiosity, try to wind up this direction because curiosity is the greatest creative force of the human being. Curiosity is a tandem of energy that has no end and the only thing that explains the ability to pause in the middle of the desire to run.
