## The entrepreneur's ideas and emotions in real time

Relying on entrepreneurship out of necessity can disappoint many people. The uncertainties between winning and losing customers not only bring difficulties on the economic issue; they bring strong emotions that change the direction of the entrepreneur and even the belief about the meaning of entrepreneurship. It is not uncommon to see entrepreneurs who give up and interrupt their projects because they fail to systematize successes in the face of so many failures, fights and emotions experienced in the eye of the hurricane.

But when they interrupt their projects, a curious phenomenon often arises. Soon after giving up, they get free and start organizing ideas or better analyzing the situation about the ups and downs they experienced. A possible explanation for this phenomenon is the change from an insecure position to a more secure one, for example when they give up on entrepreneurship and take up temporary work. However, in other cases, the simple consideration of giving up already brings freedom - an opportunity for new perspectives. Another explanation is that creative thinking arises just when the entrepreneur is free from psychological pressure.

So the question remains: can the successful entrepreneur separate emotions from ideas such as who is in and at the same time out of the hurricane? The answer is yes. Successful entrepreneurs carry attributes often interpreted as resilience and still tolerance to ambiguous situations - they live inside and outside the bubble of adversity.

According to Robert McKee [1] "In life, if you see a dead body on the street, you are hit by a surge of adrenaline: 'my God, he is dead!' Perhaps you will run away in fear. Later, when tempers calm, perhaps you will reflect on the meaning of the death of this stranger, his own mortality, and life in the shadow of death. " The truth is that in the face of ups and downs we are emotionally affected because we are human, because we feel, for example, saying no, even to an unwanted type of customer, is not so easy if the entrepreneur feels empathy and compassion. just a simple matter of business suitability.

When we feel on the skin, in situations that we experience emotions due to insecurity or fear, we feel because our brain is defending us: sometimes we even perceive risk situations as if we were being attacked - like trying to escape from a tiger. The idea of ​​losing a client, or even a client meeting that did not happen (the client had to cancel), are everyday events of the entrepreneur who comes anyway, as they are part of the adversities on the battlefield. Thus, our perception determines our emotions and reactions. If we are conditioned by the perception that losing a customer is a threat, our brain can trigger an emergency routine and the emotions that are counted can be too strong to impact our performance and our ability, for example, to reflect with the creativity that could eliminate problems.

For McKee, in life, the idea and emotion come separately. This look can help us explain the liberating reflection that arises when an ex-entrepreneur gives up but as soon as he enters a new job he manages to organize his ideas - oh, if he could call himself or go back in time.

According to Reid Hoffman and Ben Casnocha (2012), the realtor does not know when his next payment will come in because his job is up and down. So the broker works to sell but also to build his client network that is compatible with constant changes in daily life. It can be said that salespeople and brokers are resilient or even opportunistic. But we can look at the discipline that defines the brokers' survival conditions: they need to create a space to work their ideas in isolation from the arrows of emotion, from the adversities of everyday life. When the broker sells a large house, he is aware that he cannot be moved for a longer time. What explains this resilience of salespeople, in part, is a pre-concept inherent in the profession itself: salespeople fly over, look at the environment, work in networks and eventually make the dive to win their prizes. They do not categorize the job of selling (winning the prize) as the biggest job. For them, what takes work is working on the network, flying over, sailing, observing, looking for new directions.

But the entrepreneur's day-to-day life is different, because unfortunately emotions don't come up with a banner that says “be careful, you're being enchanted by emotions!” The reality is that we do not separate emotions from ideas precisely because we are human and because we learn to feel in the first place. The truth is that our humanized version is proof that we were programmed to be occasionally lost.

The question that arises is the dilemma of being an entrepreneur versus a human being. Would the successful entrepreneur be less human as he can better fly the day-to-day battle? Many become more experienced as they synthesize thoughts based on learning and in the face of daily adversities. And many appear to be more systematic or even cooler after so many failures and successes. But these are perceptions that take into account the path already taken by those who arrived there.

Now, in the field of battles and uncertainties, we need a humanized approach to follow a path that is not demotivating, such as “stop being human”.

This path exists also thanks to another human factor, as well as feeling. It stems from our human capacity to feel for others. When we look outside at the problem of others, we feel, but we feel differently with empathy and compassion; quite different from living as the protagonist. The humanized version for the entrepreneur is straightforward: we can help other entrepreneurs, especially those who are experiencing adversity. Even starting from the position of listener, we are exercising our abilities to observe, listen, reflect and give an opinion. Still, we engage “together with them” with empathy and compassion for the problem but at the same time we know that we are out of the eye of the storm. This approach helps us to synthesize ideas without the confusion of emotions that only the protagonist feels. It becomes an exercise that makes us bolder, that creates a more flexible mental model, a look; not counting the help we will be doing to others.
