## The valley of sadness afterwards and the hill of happiness

The author Dov Seidman, in Como (check page) presents the concept of the Valley of Difficulty (check the name of the Valley) which describes the "paths" that people go through when they face challenges; and compare people who score "b" with those who score "a" with those who score "c". The curve goes from "b" to "a", passing through "c". He indicates, pointing out the surveys (checking), that between "grade b" and "grade a" there is a valley, a confusing and arduous place and that is where many people get lost, and end up getting stuck in the valley, receive the note c.

[Vale's figure]

This space in the middle is a confusing area that, yes, discourages many people, a valley that can be gloomy, in the sense that many bog down there. But as they pass through it, they manage to succumb (get up) and reach the space of more clarity, the note a.

We all recognize that a lot is difficult, because there is this pressure to do better - we are always comparing our work with the outside world. So many times the "task" to be done, the challenge, gets cloudy precisely because our reference is the external world - for example, many of the challenges of entrepreneurs are guided with metrics, such as the idea of ​​being better, faster, cheaper . Often the pilgrimage in this valley becomes really frustrating because it starts with parameters, it is mediocre, when it is limited to having to differentiate it from something others do, such as competition.

Investor Paul Graham created another illustration for another type of valley that also attacks entrepreneurs, the valley of sadness, below.

[Paul Graham's Valley of Sorrow figure]

In the version of Paul Graham, entrepreneurs launch their products, at the beginning, and get some kind of initial traction - they get media reports and live a certain pre-carnival; but soon after they find themselves alone, without users or customers and no longer appear in the media, in the stories. They passed. In this area, many give up. Still, in the optimistic narrative, the survivors find themselves in a slow growth curve; and this is Paul Graham's recommendation, that entrepreneurs should focus on learning and gaining real traction with their customers - the fashion of "doing things that don't scale", the subject of the next section. [Check which section].

[Check if this article is not redundant due to another article somewhere that also spoke about Paul Graham's valley of sadness]

But Paul made that prediction, based on experience, observation. Perhaps this version of the valley sadness came out with this design, this initial curve followed by a valley, a slow and arduous pilgrimage, precisely because at some point the world, the entrepreneurs, started to operate "in the wave" of models of previous success, From others. The Paul Graham valley is very clear on the first mountain.

[Figure of an ascension curve, without the valley; versus the curve with the valley. Showing the initial problem]

It can then be articulated that the problem of the valley, or pertinent question, stems from the initial urgency, in the first place - the intention to launch itself into the world, perhaps artificialized.

If we subtract the normal growth curve from the Paul Graham curve, we have the hill of promise:

[Figure from Morro da Promiso]

So we can formalize that entrepreneurs should be aware of their urgent steps when they enter the launching Seara. Because releases promise. Point number one, more important, is awareness, and management of expectations - we must thank Paul Graham who helped us remember that if things calm down, if they get boring, if the client doesn't show up, etc, etc; you were not the first to go through this and you will not be the last. This path demands you to continue, and take advantage of the lull to learn and improve your solution, business, product, relationship etc.

Point number 2, that the initial promise, the launch - call it what you want - should be seen in a colder way, as an experiment. This is a mindset and doing so not only creates less frustration but also helps to structure the episode with more rigor and less commitment, as you think it will work. This model of strategizing says that there is a goal control above all - as if it were a premeditated battle where the result, positive or negative, is always positive, an experiment.

Now, looking at a more general question regarding these two valleys - all of them and those who created them are warning us so that we can proceed, to be resilient. This is the main message combined with the message that says that we were not the first and we will be the last to face these valleys.

But connected to this idea, it has an optimistic view, if we assume that the investment is precisely in the valley, if we think it is worth it. The valley, in the optimistic view, of that entrepreneur or group that sees it as a challenge - and that allows time and invests in the situation - is the great opportunity. The valley is the real work that must be done and the process of walking through it needs to be nurtured. It all starts with permission and time available. It is not to say that pressure for time must be eliminated, that it does not need an agenda. But it is to say that the solution should not be dominated by an agenda of time alone and that sometimes the group needs to launch itself into the valley with positive energy, with an attitude of understanding the problem and with curiosity as its north.

The valley is opportunity, not death.
