## The irreducible minimum

Sometimes we find ourselves in the middle of situations where we feel like we did the wrong thing, which should have involved a better attitude. These situations can be seen as some disorganization and we often do not dedicate time for further analysis. Sometimes we just assume that the world is kind of chaotic anyway; or that the fault of the mess is someone else's or even the system's.

But this is not just a problem that happens when we are "on the street" or depending on others. The problem we get into in "unbalanced" situations also happens when we are in "the boat" direction. It happens because there are 3 pillar factors that lead us to this disorganized or unbalanced trend: first, we are all in the same boat facing an urgent task, both the protagonist (salesperson / entrepreneur) as well as the partners and customers. It is as if this boat is about to fall into a waterfall and each one needs to negotiate beforehand and jump out. Second, the participants are not aligned with the same view on the benefits of the relationship; one of them for example is there to make a single transaction with you and will never see you again. Another is there to offer services to you and they are already interested in a more sustainable or stable relationship, for example. Third, the misalignment of external forces. The external environment is not favorable. So the economic situation of all the participants can be so complicated that a special or invisible force forces the participants to commit abuse.

This is an unfriendly, or unbalanced setting. There are solutions that may appear to be stupid. In some cases the solution is even reasonable for the participants but it sins at one point or another, for example the dynamics of an unbalanced relationship can be expensive for the external environment. In the metaphor of the boat, it would be to imagine that the transaction went well and everyone jumped out before falling into the waterfall - yes, they all saved their lives. But, on the other hand, the boat ended up falling into the waterfall so that was a good but stupid interaction. Thus elements such as the urgent agenda, misaligned interests or unfavorable external forces can become elements that frustrate the potential for the best solution for all participating elements.

Then it turns out that option that sometimes sounds stupid happens. The problem with the "stupid" version is that it doesn't look stupid very often. Precisely due to misalignment. So it ends up being, for example, the typical case where one of the participants did well and the other did not. But still, she is stupid in the sense that all spheres of negotiation have not won. Worse, these dynamics do not promote much repetition over time. Say, for example, that the seller makes a sale to a customer but a sale that made the supplier concerned about the future - for example he sold a product that had expired after a day.

The idea of ​​the irreducible minimum was addressed by Robert Wright in the book NonZero. Robert brings the concept of the game that involves winnings from all sides, in the ideal situation. In the “misaligned” situation, the idea of ​​the irreducible minimum is to imagine a culture that does not live in conditions where all participants need to collaborate. Based on the idea presented by Robert, we can imagine from the extremes. On the one hand, the irreducible minimum, the situation where for example two people do not collaborate with each other, like a tribe of ignoramuses where one of the participants hunted a duck but did not intend to, or is not motivated to share his hunt even if it is more than he needs to eat. On the other hand, the non-zero-sum game, the situation where one of the tribe's members knows if he should hunt a giraffe he should divide it because it is much more meat than he needs and it is not every day that he slaughters a giraffe . This creates a greater complexity that says "I'm going to share now" because when my colleague hunts, he will share with me.

And so the most complex systems that explain many of the exchanges that exist today in our civilizations arise. Now back from the world of the entrepreneur, the protagonist who relates to customers and partners, and the world; we have to look at non-s0ma-zero, with the aim of adding value in all spheres: entrepreneur, customers, partners, suppliers and the environment. Still, there is an entity that can sometimes seem invisible but that can be the entrepreneur's north in terms of the articulation of the non-zero-sum, the business. Business is the line that unites all the elements in dynamism.

In other words, taking care of the health of the business involves looking at the relationships, the day-to-day operations, and proposing improvements that care about everyone but not in a way that the business is left behind - the business needs to take care of its support. Why this thought? Because it is very easy to create a solution that is good for everyone but is not healthy for the business. Let's say that you won at megasena and decided, without planning and without goals to obtain returns, to open that restaurant of your dreams. In this line let's say that you decided to make all the people who interact happily. Assuming that you don't want a return on investment, it would be this condition that offers a great level of comfort as you can revitalize the possible inefficiencies of everyday life by draining money to make others happy. Even if the food doesn't come out, you can order a pizza for the customer. But if you are an investor, you are looking for a return; the story changes because you want your money back. So as an investor you need another approach - you need a way to create the operating balance, even if you start investing, without profit; but in the end it seeks balance since it needs everyone to be reasonably happy and the restaurant to stay farther and farther from being on the verge of breaking.

Ecocentrism in favor of the other
In "The Way We Where" p 25, NonZero, Robert Wright (????) argues that it is self-interest, inherent to the human being, modeled with evolution, that gives rise to the dynamism and support of good relations. That's right what you read - inherent self-centeredness is a pillar for the balance of social relationships and constructions and with that it supports the development of our civilizations. Let's see, you need it for yourself but precisely because the environment and people live together you realize that it also depends on them. The example of excess food from the big game in the tribe is straightforward: it would just rot and you, a member of the tribe, have the brilliant idea of ​​sharing. Immediately by creating this "protocol" you tell the other to do the same; if the other accepts the term, you live longer because you are less at risk with the most difficult hunts in addition to working less. In the same way we can think in an egocentric way to exchange information and thus help someone because the other can pass on information. These ideas explain that giving and receiving has an order, or dynamism, based on our need for survival; which is related to scarce resources, people, our technologies and work. These elements all form the culture and environment conditions where invisible egocentrism is at work, acting, and creating complex systems of synergy between people.
