## Passions that create and destroy

The successful entrepreneur is an artist, in the sense of being successful in bringing a vision, a creation, to the world. But the opposite is not true because not every artist reveals an art to the world. This is because art is still art even when it is contained, incubated, when it is not flying - the artist is still an artist while he is learning.

On the other hand, the artist-in-the-eyes of the world works on polishing his idea, so that his art makes sense to him and at the same time his audience. Even though he often goes through a chaotic field, the good artist is no longer chaotic as he builds his identity through his work, his work; an identity that embraces and is embraced by the audience.

This condition reflects the state of the individual's self-realization and resonates with the humanized version of the relationship between work and the individual presented by Maslow [^ maslow] (Maslow, 1998. p.1) who says that highly evolved individuals assimilate their work with their identities. That is, work becomes part of the being that defines the individual.

[^ maslow]: "These highly evolved individuals assimilate their work into their identity into their self, i.e., work actually becomes part of the self part of the individual's definition of himself." Maslow (Maslow, 1998. p.1)

In this sense, it is impossible to have a good entrepreneur or good manager or a good worker who does not feel good about what he does, who does not feel related to what he does. The relationship with work defines identity and that is to be human because the work of the human connects him to the world - it is through work that the worker sees himself in the world. This essence, irrevocable in the life of the good entrepreneur, will bring emotions of conquest and also emotions of loss, since his work and his identity are the target of the adversities of the journey of transformation of art and identity launched to the world.

The entrepreneur, investor and professor Steve Blank (????), reported not believing that he was working in Silicon Valley and being paid to do what he would do for free - worse, that he would even pay others to do it. This is not uncommon at some stage for entrepreneurs who find passions during their journeys. It happens when they encounter opportunities along the way - events that resonate with the entrepreneur's identity or that form a new identity. As the entrepreneur progresses, on the journey of discovery and cutting, he sees better the art that is being carved into the stone and his identity - he becomes the meritorious one of the discovery.

In this phase he connects with art or his identity as an artist is defined. A marvel that marks, and marks. This sense of identity revealed, printed, generates entropy, that is, it feeds the entrepreneur again on his journey - thus creating the foundation, or condition, that defines the line of behavior that says "I would even do this for free" or "I could even pay for someone as opposed to receiving ".

This condition, this place in the entrepreneur's journey, reveals the phenomenon of a potential for creation and destruction. Based on this entrepreneur-artist, who works on his work and identity and who seeks connection with the world - good relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, etc. - his passions and motivations, and the way they manage them, are elements that influence the journey towards success or failure.

In this sense, the passion of the entrepreneur is a subject explored by researchers who take into account the observation of the effects produced, for example the impact for investors, in the business world.

It is a research challenge to find ways to assess the types of passions that determine more or less success. For this, researchers usually rely on quantitative data, for example they ask investors about the types of passions of entrepreneurs who capture the best investments. This approach shows that the art of entrepreneurship is successful in materializing innovation towards the market.

Although certain categories of passions, such as passion for entrepreneurship or passion for the product, are relevant to investors, a challenging issue is the passion bias that can be articulated as biased passion. In the view pointed out by researchers Warnick, Murnieks, McMullen and Brooks, (Warnick, 2018) the issue of openness to feedback was revealed as important for entrepreneurs to obtain investment from investors, such as angel investors and venture capitalists. Yes, investors prefer passionate entrepreneurs but at the same time they want those who are more open to feedback.

In other words, openness to feedback is a crucial element for investors to help entrepreneurs achieve their next steps. It follows from research that blind, or unrestricted, passion can manifest itself as egocentricity, rigidity or resistance; impacting the non-participation of investors. It is worth remembering that the role of the investor is that of the risk analyst of the business relationship with the external environment. In other words, the good investor is concerned if the entrepreneur is capable of listening to external feedback, as he knows that the last word is from the market. Thus, the role of investors is still another test, a validation, which is compatible with the various other validations such as the market / customers, competition, etc.

The vision that entrepreneurship is science and art becomes clearer, born out of entrepreneurs, passionate about art but equally passionate about science, who seek to balance their passions taking into account the connection with the environment where they produce and deliver their creations. Perhaps this formulation will help explain the tendency of investors to rely more on teams of co-founders than on entrepreneurs who are alone because, with some exceptions, lonely entrepreneurs are probably more irreducible.

Thus the entrepreneur's journey suffers from the tensions of the outside world. Perhaps an issue, not much addressed in startup and entrepreneurship manuals, is also an issue for artists - they shape their identities, their work and their work, and fall in love with them. But from there, they find a crossroads when their work faces audiences. At this crossroads, they decide to return, continue in the state of their previous identity, or explore the new path, learning from the audience. The destruction version is precisely when they are enchanted by an identity (or self-efficacy, if performance, self-esteem) that they develop upon the state of the art. This shouldn't be a problem except that the art that is on its way to find the world is adapting. When they are enchanted, they tie up, they put themselves at risk of disconnecting with the next stage, for example the launch of their creations in front of audiences. This issue is complex precisely because the audience, like the market, is in the future and it is not known where things are going.

Worse, the crossroads often have no signs - without warning. Steve Blank reports the illustration of the entrepreneur who is enamored with his idea and does not hear feedback from the outside world:

[Put here the translation of Steve Blank's story that is inside the map14 Melbourne video]

So it becomes apparent, not always at time H, the rejection of changing art, or changing its role and identity - its role, its purpose (or how it sees itself, or how it assesses its chances, its self-esteem and self-efficacy). The situation presented by Steve where "no one wants to hear that your baby is ugly" (????) simply stems from the previously formed identity; as if the artist's discovery, even his own (not yet revealed), put him in a state of euphoria, anxiety, with an energetic potential that is incredible, creative and at the same time devastating.

In another exploration, the entrepreneur maintains the status of his previous discovery, of the pre-planned line, even when he goes to the streets in order to find out more about the problem / solution, for example when he goes to the streets to do a research, for example listening to your potential customers. The situation is - the entrepreneur comes back from “work on the street”, opens the door and says to his colleagues 'let's pivot!' claiming that he heard the “feedback from the galaxies” because someone who confirmed his theory, or even he was influenced by the pleasure of confirming some hypothesis, or the confirmation that the line drawn from the work gave positive results.

It is worth reflecting on the various forms that this phenomenon presents itself, as it can be toxic, especially when it comes to the entrepreneur. For example, a subordinate employee could easily observe this scene and imagine that the entrepreneur is in fact being responsible - why, the president took to the streets, went to look for data, is honoring the relationship of the user, the consumer, the customer, with the external world. He didn't create it just in his mind. Pass an idea, strong but dangerous.

But probably this speed, this anxiety, or urgency, characterizes the entrepreneur who is manipulating the data, or reading the data, it is still reasserting itself and worse believing in such a way in its own narrative to the point of trying to contaminate its collaborators - ah , customers said the food needs more salt.

In order to better articulate this phenomenon, or syndrome, Steve Blank formulated the 72 Hour Rule: the founder is forbidden to return from the streets and say "let's pivot" for a period of 72 hours. After 72 hours, they reconsider what they heard.

On the other hand, some entrepreneurs, whether after learning by hitting their heads or because they reflect the relationship more broadly, pose themselves as more neutral agents - they preserve the passion for art, or the current state of the art, but are equally passionate about the process. broader, for example by seeking truths.

Perhaps for them the identity that guides them is further ahead, under construction, in the future; and they don’t throw themselves, they don’t hug so tightly to the current state of art, they don’t anchor; the boat is free. When they allow that freedom, they can look at their arts with a softer look - they know they are in love with the current state but they know that art consists of working on art, sometimes leaving it behind, or perhaps letting art be mediocre by the world - it happens and in cases it can be good.


Many successful entrepreneurs created companies that took new directions and in fact found happiness in this state of evolution. It doesn't need to be said much because everyone is entitled to live new passions. Still, it is not uncommon for art to become mediocre but for the artist to be happy with the new art once it finds the world. Perhaps this explains authors, such as singers, who discover or run into markets and are enchanted by their mediocre works, live moments of fame, live happily and with that they propagate their arts.

But in this interaction with the world, in the confrontation with changes, the identity created by the entrepreneur also finds discontent, when it does not evolve, and may even die; thus it is perceived, felt, because the creator is co-responsible for his formed identity, his previous work.

Andy Grove, in Only the Paranoid Survive (p.xxx), explains a critical situation experienced by leadership teams of large companies that go through a situation called an inflection point. The tipping point is when a stabilized company, which has a well-connected product or service on the market, finds a force that disrupts the balance of the product or service. Most companies that experience inflection points simply do not survive because the forces at work impact them brutally. One can imagine the entity-company, on the sunny beach, when the waves start to change but one does not notice the tsunami that comes to take everything. In these moments, sometimes decades that anticipate the tsunami, management teams feel such difficult sensations comparable to the feelings that people feel when they lose a loved one - with typical behavioral effects such as self-defense, denial, escapism, among others.

Both on the journey from the tipping point of large corporations, and on the journey of the youngest enterprise, it is up to the entrepreneur or the leadership team to work in search of the truth and not in reaffirming the current state of the art. In this sense, courage is important because good leaders are those who also put themselves to the test, leave themselves in the position of vulnerability that is liberating.

No one wants, in the end, to be caught off guard by a tsunami either due to customer dissatisfaction or outside acting forces like competition, changed market rules, etc.
