## The gray-scale rainbow and the empty golden pots

To say that every entrepreneur has a dream no longer fits. Some start with a north, an energy, an initial goal - that gives them strength, that keeps them connected. Such energy cannot be the main motivation for the daily routine. If the dream is the target, fixed, the entrepreneur will be stepping on eggs because at some point, he will probably notice the colors of the rainbow fading or he may receive the message that there is no gold in the pot.

On the other hand, the entrepreneur needs to find an energy that guides him to support a lot that comes his way, since the field is complex and uncertain. So, it is better to exchange that idea of ​​the dream of entrepreneurship for something more practical - a north; and from that direction, some dreams. In other words, entrepreneurs need direction for their daily lives, but they must walk with a more open mindset. They need to find a way to enjoy life and resolve adversity.

It is not easy - nor is it tasty. And that is why the media prefers the easiest version to tell the stories. It is easier for the newspaper to tell the story of the lucky one among the countless entrepreneurs who had big dreams. Have you ever imagined what another entrepreneur's article would be like who worked for 10 years in the cafeteria and finally came out of the red between failures and successes? It simply would not have an audience. But the stories told are more than just opportunistic and confusing to us; they are also unfair. The truth is that many of the great ideas of success reached the state of success after projects that failed their entrepreneurs. The truth is that the idea has changed, the company has changed its name, the partners have changed - the market has changed. Eventually they succeed, eventually something goes right and then someone comes to summarize the idea trying to make a simple trace.

Airbnb, the world's largest hotel competitor, a pioneer in the collaborative economy, almost didn't happen. An initial version of the idea had been tested but it was not going well. The founders gave up and were already working on another website, a platform for finding student accommodation. Only after 4 months, when they realized that the project for students would not work, they returned to the idea of ​​Airbnb. And yet it didn't take off at the time - it was execution and a host of other conditions that eventually lined the stars for Airbnb to take off. But what did they really know according to co-founder Brian Chesky? That they needed to pay the rent (2015).

So we can say that a strong dream, a very well-defined target, is not the basic premise of success. For author Steve Blank, no business plan survives contact with the first customer (2010). The truth is that good execution is one that makes room for changes along the way. It is, above all, experimental because it becomes a learning space. When entrepreneurs walk with the learning window open, they are running with their feet on the ground with a broader view, including on their behavior. Broadening their vision, they can better live adversity, they can adapt their business and conduct. But for that, they need breathing room because despair in an agenda that is short, or urgent, can mean a premature end - we will talk more about the urgent agenda later.

Author, entrepreneur and investor, Paul Graham created a metaphor to describe the typical situation when founders encounter the long period of lull, frustration and disappointment. This is the Vale da Tristeza or Through of Sorrow (2015) in English. The “buteco” version of this phenomenon would be that Bar-ballad that opened in the neighborhood: it soon became a point in the week of the launch but after the initial carnival it became an empty house and so it remained. Vale da Tristeza is the path that entrepreneurs take when they manage to endure. Those who support, find real customers, few of them; and at the front they find opportunities when their products or services find an identity and become a reference.
