## The act of saying thanks and the reflective process 

Sometimes, the act of giving thanks - to someone or a system or something in life - can turn into a deeper moment for reflection. By expressing gratitude, we revive memories that could otherwise be forgotten, giving them their due value and understanding how they have shaped us. In my journey, the process of writing the acknowledgements section for this book actually turned into a deeper dive into the experiences and lessons that have shaped my trajectory. My sincere attempt to express gratitude ended up being a journey through my personal and professional development. The section below was included in the acknowledgements until the moment when my editor, Vanessa Oliveira, warned me that the text was good, but not for the acknowledgements section. It was at that moment that I realized what I had done and that it could be placed elsewhere.

And now, I would like to share my letter of gratitude, which was in the acknowledgements section. With this, the acknowledgements section was named after Vanessa, for starters. You may or may not want to read the letter below, but the main point of putting the example here for you is that there is a process within the process of giving thanks. Expressing gratitude, identifying gratitude, identifying value, can be a process. We need to make time for it. Perhaps it was the pressure - the need for an acknowledgements section - that led me to see it. But the moment I had written that section, I did not have time to reflect on how the process of thanking people is tied to my life. "Gratitude is Winning," perhaps the title for the next book.

```
I would like to thank many people and systems that led me to write this book. There were many variables that brought me to the situation of facing the writing of this material. So, I will list a few points, and it is likely that I forgot others because an entrepreneur's life is nothing if not chaotic. In any case, one of the turning points, which only made sense long after I had contact, was the experience of virtually meeting investor Michael Dearing. I had, or pushed myself toward, the fortune of stumbling upon a course titled Blitzscaling1, which was made available by Greylock Partners, a well-known venture capital firm in Silicon Valley.

Right off the bat, I was so excited that I decided to get involved in some way. I reached out to former Mozilla CEO, John Lilly, who was working at Greylock, and asked if I could translate - as a volunteer - the lectures. In a few days, they sent me the English subtitles, and I started the work. Everything was going well; the translation was flowing, and thus I began working on lecture 1, lecture 2. But when I got to the third lecture, Michael's, I simply froze. The material was different and felt more like a lesson. He talked about the concept of creative destruction and management, and then I felt like what was flowing well had become complicated. I simply couldn't translate anymore. When I tried to understand more, I froze even more - I needed to research, learn. That job, which was averaging 30 days (using a few hours per week), simply led me to a zone of curiosity, and with that, I lost focus. In fact, the moment was so strong that I completely changed the direction of my start-up idea and realized that the job of subtitling should depend on prior collaborative work, which should be the job of indexing, organizing, studying the videos. It was at this moment that I had the idea for FastClip, my current startup. I don't know if it will find success, but I know that this experience of investigating videos changed my life and set new paths.

Making "slides" for snippets of Michael's video, I ended up visiting the Harrison Metal website, buying books, and somehow found myself inspired again by serious topics that underpin entrepreneurship. This book brings a little bit of that; this book wants to pause the founder's life to consider serious topics that support entrepreneurship.

Also, in this same section, I need to thank all the creators of the Blitzscaling course: John Lilly, Reid Hoffman, Chris Yeh, Allen Blue, all the people interviewed, and also the students and listeners of the course. Blitzscaling was one of the episodes that taught me that the way to accelerate towards the potential of a super company should indeed involve a certain deceleration. This book is about that - decelerating to accelerate, which incidentally is a theme in the Blitzscaling lectures, but here in this book I am concerned with the individual level, you, the entrepreneur-founder, you, the entrepreneur of your life.

The "B-side" that becomes apparent after watching all of Blitzscaling is a quieter space that suggests that a company's growth depends, first and foremost, on the personal growth of its protagonists. Company or project or life project, it doesn't matter. Furthermore, it suggests that the "B-side" of the entrepreneur's personal growth suggests that we be honest with ourselves, a more humble person who is the foundation for personal growth and the team that will generate a company. We must consider that all innovation depends on the generating function, the seed, the culture - call it what you want.

Of the models above, I would like to leave a specific thank you to John Lilly because his appearance made me enjoy entrepreneurship in a different way. I heard about John when I worked for Mozilla around 2005. At that time, I felt a great distance between my position and that of the CEO. I did not know what the CEO did. I must confess that one day I got nervous when I heard him say, "he was the guy who paid us." I did not like it because I found the phrase somewhat crude that did not resolve my doubt. From that moment on, I kept an eye on him, with my antennas on. Sometime later, I came across a very honest "life as it is" type video that I loved and made me empathize a lot with John's ideas. The video was removed from the Internet, but it was John arguing with a designer responsible for the Firefox project design. The discussion at one point became serious — tension arose around the idea of execution versus objectives. The designer argued that the best solution for a design would be to have the problem already solved (he presented a metaphor that said that the perfect hoe would be the idea of the ready-made hole). What intrigued me was the way John rebutted, saying that he disagreed and thought that tools, even imperfect ones, could serve as a means where people ended up being creative and creating solutions. When I saw the heated discussion, I ended up understanding the designer's point, but what inspired me was the CEO's point of view, who recognized an aspect very similar to an expression used in Brazil that says that "the hole was deeper." I agreed - how to know the perfect solution for things before working on them? And I thought it made total sense for a CEO, an executive - since the leader's job involves trusting people's creativity and allowing them to find new answers. John's way of thinking implied an idea where people collaborated and could eventually come to the conclusion of solutions. In John's vision, things did not need to be pre-planned with such certainty - that captivated me to endorse John, and today I could articulate his having said that he was the guy who paid me as being "he is the guy who trusts me even when I have imperfect tools thinking they are perfect. What he said makes one feel humble.

Yet in this section, I want to take the opportunity to thank my friends who helped translate the subtitles to those first Blitzscaling lectures: Fred Filho, Elderclei Reami, and Rael Gugelmin.

I'm not going to make this a meta thank-you section that includes everyone I would like to thank, because there simply wouldn't be enough pages, and it wouldn't make sense to the reader. So, I've only included these snippets to convey a clear message that there were certain turning points, what I call inflection points, that end up shaping an entrepreneur's path significantly. These points are situations that alter our trajectory. Many of them are challenging situations, like problems that strike us, as if we've been hit by an arrow that forces us to walk to a specific place to remove the arrow from our body - perhaps this could be the arrow of curiosity. When you encounter certain elements, people, or systems, elements that challenge your mind, that sometimes cause you pain, or challenging situations; observe, for it's these points that truly have a significant influence on your path. When you face these challenges of curiosity, try to lean into that direction because curiosity is the greatest creative force of the human being. Curiosity is an endless well of energy and the only thing that explains our ability to pause in the midst of wanting to rush.

```
