## The hypermarket of solutions for getting things done

* @meta-refid 1234-8484-8888-8844

* https://taboca.medium.com/the-hypermarket-of-solutions-for-getting-things-done-6afed2a1f9b2 

Founders are essentially on a path to getting things done. We know that. But we also know that they aren’t in it just to get things done for the sake of getting things done. It may be said that they want to get things done in big ways or cause an impact on the world. This sets them in a call to action, to do it faster. It’s natural because one way to achieve this is by getting things done more quickly. There is no trap in this approach, because the trial-and-error method aligns well with doing things faster if possible. We should also recognize that founders have, at their disposal, tools to learn from.

Well, it is unfair to put that way — tools to learn — because of a potential implied thinking that they carry a learning toolkit. I mean, I could go on and say that their learning and reflective methods are more or less influencing them — or hijacking them — by that force of getting things done, in particular the faster one, which could distract them from their own reflective capacity. I did’t say that.

Because I know, that our ways to reflect-and-learn doesn’t work like that. I know, and we know, that we can escape from potential traps of being too fast, or too buried, or too involved. In other words, an intense trial-and-error path gives us that, a change to call ourselves to be strategic. In this context, it matters the context, the thing that we are doing, which may and should involve vision or goals or mission or beliefs, you name it. Because of that we can fly to higher skies and look from above. And there we may be asking angels or others but in essence we are trying to look things from a new perspective.

The startup situation, with its goals or aspirations, may offer that escape hatch. Paul Graham’s definition — that startup equals to growth — helps me to think of a characterization for startups that helps with that. The way he puts is that a startup is an entity designed to grow. With this perspective, the startup is not static; and it leads us to consider its evolutionary path. I mean, an entity that is formed, that starts with an idea or thoughts of purpose. And then, it changes as it materializes something — as a product or a service or as a functional entity — and such materialization changes and happens to produce interactions with the environment, offering value and establishing an exchange, like a business; and by that it may capture value as a consequence of a virtuous dynamics with the external environment — our world or the market or audiences. In other words, through stages and through new value it creates better conditions for the future and other greater transformations.

Now, back to founders, we can reorganize the situation as of one where we are in it to get things done by running our startups. That we are interested in being around while taking our startups into that path of growth through evolving. With just a little digging from that situation, we have to face our own growth, to evolve along. And this is challenging.

Now, here is where our challenge gets warmer. A insighful image carried by Reid Hoffman helps to understand the characterization of that execution path. He says that to be there is like to jump out off a cliff trying to assemble an airplane on our way down. That is quite intense, by the implied element of pressure given by the time, or gravity. This image tells me to figure a way to escape. Moreover, or more important, the saying celebrates the implicit situation that getting things done happens first although we are essentially called to learn along. This is challenging enough. But it gets warmer, or hotter, these ways. Because of our new environment of entrepreneurship, or how we perceive it. What is new may innevitably appear as great and may go along with the characterizations of our world, our new and busy world, or faster and accelerated world. Our world had gotten bigger and bigger, or warmer and hotter, or more interactive and iterative; impacting our ways of getting things done, in many ways.

Back to that image, I can now imagine that they jumped of a cliff and that they are trying to assemble that airplane on our way down. But it’s not that the new weather changes as we knew, out of the sudden from sunny to rain and to storms. Now the view shows others around in the same situation. And along with that a lot of other things falling. Things that you can pick, things applicable to the task at hand. In our real world, we know, many of these things are there to help us, it is undeniable. None of these are evil, or at least a lot are, to some or greater extent, valid or applicable or pragmatic, to certain conditions. These things solve real problems. And many are cheap, easy to plug, or important. And for some of these the security seems to be fantastic. And some of these appears to be required too. In this new space we are teased — not to say bombarded — by packages. Teased to check them, teased to taste, or to buy and then unbox them. We can be involved and these can be good thoughts (ideas, thoughts, methods), no doubt. And on top of these things, or on the side, or underneath, there are beings too, like us or different, practitioners and advisors and experts. And there are the systems too. And all of these give us superpowers. All of them go along with us, so we are not alone in that ride. And along, on our ways, there are some other big things, the platforms. These don’t seem to be falling when I look at them. Relativelly, it feels like real grounds or it looks like roads for taking off. Plus, I hear calls, or voices, not enchanting, I wouldn’t say that. But there are solid narratives and there is coherence in there.

Again, not evil, no. When I ask if this space can be evil, I tend to see it as formidable or frightening, but not evil. It can’t be although sometimes the excess of brands confuses me. So if I am here to cooperate, I rather think that most of these things are given, or a given. But I don’t say this in ways as in that these things were thrown at us by beings of other dimensions, no. We brought ourselves here. These are things we built, tools we build, building blocks given to ourselves by us. These are the things that we use to get things done.


The prompt were a founder jumping off a cliff and on her way too many objects and methods and people and it may look like a tornado in the background
But it is too, down to earth and in reality, that we might be walking in a sort of hypermarket. Here I hold my hands in the cart and see too many aisles and too many solutions and too many other shoppers — all doing the same. And all of these are packaged well, with colorful and interesting boxes, more or less good and some of them great in essence but most of them are bundled with great narratives. And again, to think of an evil is unfair. Because I see that many of these are actually proven, or regulated. I see that because I see others using it, and others validating it. Plus, many of these boxes carry proper descriptions, of its ingredients or characterizations, and warnings or advice. These are honest solutions, and the potential risks of use and abuse are being given.

And we should not forget that the whole goods being offered by people there too to help. They are friendly and are helpful. And that the music is nice, and that the air conditioning works. And that a lot of free samples are given. But the most important thing to not forget is that we — founders - can be quite hungry when we go to this supermarket.

This essay was a draft and colorful illustration from some of the thoughts considered on the way of the the writing book Slow Down to Startup. Get in touch to help me launch this book.


