


<!--
@lost-and-found Expendable, fun, HR, acept this mission, regulating. 

This is, again, a problem for founders, especially because of having that big requirement, of being right, and then, or being required to be fun. 

Now there is another problem from the corporate park that in the startup situation too is critical. It is that when shit really really hits the fan, and when course-correction can't be taken and spirits can't go back, then park treats their roles like resources, like coal, think of them as expendable, and they are fired. Of course, HR chimes in to not touch their real identities as humans. They will be protected for the other journey. But it is through that medium of "we can't waste time," that people take themselves to enter the binary situation, in or out, sooner or later. But not in the surface, unfortunatelly, as it is perceived and promoted as an express - a highly performant train that incessantly arrives at the next station, no matter how turbulent was the ride. It can be difficult to stop our brains to read the underlying nature of this fast-moving train; because we happened to be dropped from the air after an "if you chose to accept this mission". And indeed, when the train seems to rest in a station, its crew quickly enters the celebration mode as opposed to get into the boring, reflective, never-ending, frustrating, and painful analysis of a post-mortem nature. On the contrary, the resting at the stations coherently speaks that "if we've exerted so much energy, and given that some of us have been lost along the way, let's just go ahead and have a moment of silence, let's just go ahead and respect our efforts, our soldiers, our resources." That call is enough to take our attention away from the reflection, and any spark for a revolution. Now it is the time for our moods to be energized, again, so the people joins with the lambs and sloths and carps and anchovies and orangutans, and breakast cereal, and fruits and bats, and of course the guacamole plus all of that goes well with the option to return home a couple hours early. Moreover, if everyone suddenly are the heroes of such an effort, it is then plausibly required a promotion which happens to go for the ones who stood for them, the ones that did the magic to supress any revolt, the ones that kept pouring the spirits high, the ones that kept the momentum going, that the fire burning. 


--> 

