# Foreword #

This is a special place for a foreword from a special person who wants this book to reach out to whoever wants to enter the entrepreneur path, to our future founders. But also, if not more important, to whoever is interested in helping them. I would also include parents of founders in the list, but they are known as investors, angels, advisors, you name it. Steve Blank and Chris Yeh, when I approached them briefly about this book work, had replied to me a soft yes. That means an inclination to receive the manuscript; meaning they may try to read. That is what I have so far, in terms of connections with these folks which many will respect them as tier one authors (authors, entrepreneurs, investors combined) in the field. But there are other top people which may love this work, I know. Anyway, these names are the ones who are seriously found through this work - their thoughts, their frameworks, their concerns, you name it. 

Chris Yeh seems to be the project leader of Blitzscaling but of course it could be Reid Hoffman or John Lilly or other who they think are into the Blitzscaling crew, that loved the Blitzscaling effort, and used it as a reflective opportunity to learn, and who saw that from the Blitzscaling lectures a lot more can be taken or extracted. Aside from this work arriving in the hands of John and Reid, it seems to me as key to first be brought to Chris Yeh; a view that was enriched after I read something from his personal page, about his interested to help certain people with certain projects. When I went on to track down how I came to find Blitzscaling, the network movement shows John Lilly: I were paying attention to him from the Mozilla days, when I were the one FTE from Brazil between 2005-2008. At a point in time I watched a video featuring him and an UX expert from Mozilla - one which was a heated conversation - and a turning point were when he pointed a thought that tools in progress would be a way for people to improve their tools and themselves. I liked that. One day I asked John Lilly to connect me with the subtitles of the Blitzscalinng lectures because I wanted to help to do the pt-br ones. He did and a person named Michael Inouye from Greylock sent to me all the subtitles. I started, asked two friends to help, we did about three of them, Brian and Nirav. So I caught myself in front of Michael Dearing talk, the 3rd one, and I got stuck, the subtitling project paused there. 

Which brings us to Michael Dearing. Michael educational system was an inflection point which gave me a new perspective through the works which led me to characterize the book and my own views. This were forming quite slow through the moments which I thought I was making a start-up, named Fast Clip. (A side note about Fast Clip: I heard Reid Hoffman saying the word 'fast clip'. So I used that as a name for this tool which allowed me to clip the Blitzscaling video talks. In other words, the idea consisted of enabling a community of people to study/have conversations about various precious moments from these special videos which happen to have low views. In other words, by clipping, conversations from user collaboration would elevate attention and reflective thinking. Ref 2017 notes using the Fast Clip prototype https://youtu.be/DpZv9Jxk8ZY?si=wOwuqgulr0N2eU4I&t=132). Where I making a start-up or a science project - as Michael would say - or studying and trying to figure something and also struggling with my own struggles as an entrepreneur? This connection with Michael brought me to write to him on various occasions, nevertheless inspired and engaged, which brought me to know Barbara Minto, her work, initially. I wrote to Barbara too and even had a video call with her too, and she sent to me her book. Some two or three precious lectures/reflections from Michael were his *Two Blasts From the Past* and the *Executive Communications* and his GM2 course about OKR. Thoughts in alignment with what I think are thoughts from Michael are all over this book, aside from the specific points where Michael appears as a conductor. I would appreciate if Michael had the time, and patience, to read the entire manuscript, perhaps before any 'professional' editor touches it. But if not possible to read all, I hope he could read the chapters Running, Impact, and the one on Communication towards the end. While Michael knows a lot more about all of this - what I have written is elementary to him - maybe through my voice I was able to write as a founder-entrepreneur who were into the struggle and then perhaps provided a view from certain goggles of a founder in the middle of the process of execution and learning; which may activate the mind of the reader to reflect from perspective.  

Now here it comes Steve Blank, and I don't know if Steve is beyond all of them or not; so I can't put order here, if I were to have one wish for a request for support - by comments or reading or notes or a foreword you name it. Right now, I did a search across this book work's repository and found 161 results with the term "Steve Blank". A first point to bring Steve in is that he is a known father of the Lean Startup movement; and this book certainly acknowledgess that many founders will stumble in lean startup and the lean-like methods, it's a situation for a complication that may happen with many of them. Then the fact that Steve is aware of how founders misuse tools and methods - and that he kept on engaged and attentive to when they lack awareness, of as Eric Ries would put it lack the view of purpose - sets Steve to be in. Plus, a big plus, Steve had reflected about the role of the founders vs. artists. 

Now, Julia Cameron, through the Right to Write, said that the author will launch anyway, it's a self publishing effort. And I know, that writing is a very collaborative process which many can't see that. In other words, John and Chris and Reid and Michael and Steve, and many others, have already supported this work. My intention to connect with them is above all an intention to hear their voices and also to be very open to any perspectives they have to make this book real and in the hands of good people. I would also accept, if any of them wanted, this to be a joint effort; if some of them see that makes sense to be a co-author, or something like an angel investor role. I think that they have to see this before a professional editor touches. Moreover, I may also need their views before that final professional editor stage which may, if I am not well advised, destroy the work. I rather have the work enriched than destroyed. 

Marcio, July 14th, 2024 