# Foreword #

A lot of wrinting that sells is written by entrepreneurs that are successful, by the eyes of the critics, that may measure them by the profit that their companies generate. Among them there are many that are indeed heroes of capitalism, where their businesses are valuable to the society, to customers, to their collaborators, and even investors that join with the interest to get good returns. But this author of yours would not pass that filter, not even of having made a company that is profitable. In other words, the many startups I had created through decades didn't pass the early stage where one could simplify as "the founder is generally alone and using a lot of time."  

But there are just too many variables involved. And the stories told in retrospect, like stories from the successful cases, seem to not embody a level of nuances of the struggle that founders generally go through; of course not only founders but that anyone involved in supporting the actual startup situation. And that does not seem to be a result of a pure interest to sell more, where stories are told like guides where you can follow and replicate success. To be fair, it may be about focusing in what is right. In other words, there seems to be a justice that has to do done for the successful stories. It pulls the authors to focus on what matters or for what can be pragmatic. In other words, a situation has to be created, such as of controlled temperature and pressure, so that the narrative works. To illustrate an example, when Brian Chesky was asked what how to select cofounders [^foonote_brian_cofounders], he had acknowledged that he was lucky and that his cofounder was a long time friend that he could trust and admired. He had then added some points of importance such as that admiring the person is important so that one can work around them for long hours, and that they should find people better than themselves, that challenges them. 

[^foonote_brian_cofounders]: Brian Chesky discussed his experience with selecting cofounders (2015, Blitzscaling, 1h23min) in the context of starting Airbnb. He noted the role of luck and his pre-existing relationship with his cofounder, and with that and given their successful relationships, were able to highligh the importance of trusting connections, or being around people you enjoy working, and more. 

Therefore, on the other side of our own realities and when it is time to apply execution - with the tools and methods and guides and principles and a lot more - we seem to feel a gap, as in to notice that something that seem not right. Is it my cofounder? Is it my network? Should I learn again the process? Should I do more and faster? In other words, that they seem to not be in the right temperature and pressure. Oh, if we where in Silicon Valley, would things be different? Oh, we may need a cofounder. 

But then, in front of that, pressure is actually real as it counts that time moves, as resources are always runnning out. We may revisit the resources, the frameworks, the theories, the role models; go back to the hypermarket of offerings where most products are shining and tell a promising story. And we may too run the risk of - by trying to be productive - becoming too urgent. 

And into that journey, of course by the nature of the process, we do get an idea that we might be the problem, such as that our behaviours are in the way. But still, what could be the ways? Does anyone talk about that? And it becomes complex because in front of what to do, falling into a "performance track" seems to be an option - such as "should we focus in the prototype given that we are engineers and designers?" In other words, we try with what we have. But still, although we can be in the middle of a number of interactions in the hyperconnected space, we are quite alone. Alone, anyways, if the theme has to do with us, our behaviours. It is quite lonely too because "entering this room" could lead to further concerns such as to wonder if the individuals need psychotherapy - or if that is not a clear visualization still some ideas may float around the wonderings about the behaviours of individuals influencing the system. But even if one brings about these considerations, still we won't exactly be sure which direction to move further as the management persperctive seems to, again, work by an assumption of the controlled temperature and pressure, or to hope that by assuming that the entity of business under its pressure and hopes for solvency, brings about the best of humans, or to in a way or another select the best humans. 

But then, and likely fair, many would likely not care to access, likely not from that door anyway, the space where the human operating system influences the space of the entrepreneurial effort. This is a perspective we don't talk much. After all, to name a few reasons, people are different and we hope that the machine of entrepreneurship helps to fix that too. 

Still, these concerns are everywhere, in the discussions, conversations that are happening in the "hallways" of the corporate building, such as meetings, blogs, rants from the doers, and more. Now, if these problems are real, and even if these conversations seem to be less professional, yet we have good reasons to be consider the subject, such as that we are concerned (a) and (b) that we might be trying to advance by patching the average day, where it is not uncommon us to be moving with arbitraty discussions; which may also be a result of us not having a specific perspective that can help us.  

In the direction to this perspective, we may then try to establish certain values. We know that they are in it to go for it, and alo that a lot is not really working. In addition that that they want to thrive, to achieve success. But it also the case, by necesssity of the situation - even though not noticeable - they should care about their health. That, exactly because the unhealthy state - and we don't have to dig much into the different conditions of human - can't minimally listen, can't learn, which is a premise for the entrepreneur. And the potential conflict, in the sense of conflict of interests of the self, happens as we fail with us, we may "bend" the machine a little bit, or more or less, aiming that a future better results can put us in a better place; which goes inline with that old idea of working too much, which involves acceptable losses in the way, and by that going towards retirement. 

But that inclination does not work anymore, especially in the modern entrepreneurial situation of a highly iterative and highly interactive world, given that the commitment to execution can't yield precision, because course-correction needs to happen, much more, in realtime. Thus, from the perspective of the individual, you can't anymore set your car in one direction, accelerate and expect results to happen, such as to recover the losses and wrong bets, to pay the bill. 

In other words, if the conversations of feedback, such as strategic conversations, need to happen much more, we not only need healthy conditions to have those but also the right perspective, minimally to set the angle of concern, one possible being - if we have a much more dyncamic world of options, and if a lot of resources are promising, we can also be wasting our attention not only to fail with the success that we want to our entreprise, but also failing with this internal readiness level of success - the individual health and their psychological health - which we may not even notice it.  

Now, just like I said that I didn't do a thriving and successful business by the eyes of the critics, or what we may see as normal critics; I can't also confirm having lost myself, such as the conditions that entrepreneurs may find themselves like burnout. I would say that I got stuck in the middle, which is likely a place that many leave - for a while or forever - but nevertheless do not bother to document, not even to reflect. In this journey which was not the end, which naturally involves more learning, I had started to notice voices that seemed to support in this direction, to my surprise quite clear from the interviews of the Blitzscaling lectures. In other words, through studying Blitzscaling, I started to sense that the people involved in the startups that had achieved success, seemed to be calmer, seemed to be people reading much more, seemed to not follow one or other framework too strictly, seemed to be aware. On the other hand, the anxiety of entrepreneurs, seemed to set themselves to miss listening these voices. This is the gap I caught myself in. Therefore, this book, for me, is a bit like the B side of Blitzscaling. 

