# Afterword #

<!-- Meta 

--> 

I am the one to write about this subject? Or any subject for entrepreneurs - and whoever else supportive to their causes such as investors or practitioners of management or entrepreneurship? The answer, or the question, kept hidden, first, as I was busy deconstructing all my entrepreneurial operating system. Then, when I started to notice that the material would be helpful to others, of course a judgemental element showed up. I had, luckily for you and me, able to find a way through, due to supportive minds, you call them guides or mentors. So to the points that justify my willingness to move on to publish this material, are the following. 

First, that there is really a lot of materials out there, indeed written by professionals that made it, recognized as successful. A lot of materials for supporting start-ups are amazing. We have literally a supermarket of solutions, a complex one with many aisles, where entrepreneurs can pick solutions for all the aspects of the journey. And these products are being advertised well, all being well promoted, and a lot of them promises to solve specific neeeds, promises to advance. Thus, there is a just a lot of solutions for moving fast. 

Second point is really about a chance to bring a touch, or a voice, of a normal human and the fragility of the situation. Therefore, this is a viewpoint from an entrepreneur that is struggling, a reflection derived from the actual reflections of from the zone of failure and learning. I feel that I have double-paused - and my detour has costed a lot. My belief that these reflections are valid received support from the following idea from Julia Cameron, one of my guiding starts: 

> *"I have been a writer for thirty years, and it still excites me when someone decides to claim the full power of writing and write about what they damn well choose, as honestly as they possibly can."*
> Julia Cameron (1998, p. 141)

<!-- references

Cameron, J. (1998). The Right to Write. TarcherPerigee.

--> 

It is my hope that the language that I have used connects with you and that we can support ourselves knowing that there is a not so fast way to execute the journey. How will this book work against the competition remains to be seen. In other words, and shifting the responsibility to you, how you will work against your competitors - operating at high speed - remains to be seen. 

Now, will this book do a good service or not? It's open to the ongoing discussion, the neverending discussion, I hope. The positive view from me is my claim that this project is open, the discussion is open. Now, the truth is that I feel that this material does justice to a sort of internal voice - that I was able to hear - while in the middle of the struggle in the attempt to get to a point of traction, when we are always finding more data, and ideas like, I can do it. So it's like I was hearing a voice, on one side, like "you can learn more, it will work" and on the other side a voice that would be saying something like "stop, give up." So it seemed that those are extremmes of the same thing, same behavior or tendency. Somehow, I thik that I found peace, a peaful place - more like the AND - that recognized that there were signs, an actual truth, for what it takes to be a good founder, and these elements where everywhere. That the best founders, and entrepreneurs, really where investing a lot, as in they actually did things quite slow, as the amount of interactions happening with them gave them information. Thus, the slowing down is the reflective state in us. There is no high speed, or slow speed. You can be meditating in a bullet train. You can be reflecting about a complicated question, if you are the leader of a complex organization with thousands of employees. Thus the organization might be running fast but you are the one able to enter into the reflective state that is necessary, such as to connect with the constituents. Therefore, through this foreword letter, I hope that this book can help you to connect with yourself, with the others you are working with, your team, and the all the others around. Thank you. 