# Indução e atração 

<!-- 

* V2.1 - 

* Referencia - 
 
 [ ScqA ] Induction is around, induction attracts. We derive that induction can be used arbitrarily, the complication, abuses. We need to watch out to not fall, and to not comply with; instead consider SCqA. 

 [ Add ] Consider the notes from Adam Silva, about the language. 
 
 [ Add ] Consider SCqA of Barbara Minto, a structured approach for making peace with induction; Not a random way. A way to go. Consider to bring the point that Barbara's approach is the way to solve induction and communication for business folks - the case of the owl according to Michael Dearing. 

 [ Add ] Conclusion - Consider that to make the case to the folks around you, that you depend on, as you move towards with your entrepreneurial journey - such as investors, they will likely know that you are using induction. And they will seek substance. 

-->
Ayn Rand, the author of Atlas Shrugged, took about 13 years to finish her book. Of course, her book is something complex as she was developing a complex project, as a philosopher, her philosophy. [Need to check if this is the one that took 13 years. There is a reference about such project in her book The Art of Non-Fiction.] In a way, she was conquering something, taking her point of view, developing her point of view, achieving clarity - and bringing to the word. 

Perhaps the calling that Ayn Rand where in resonates with what Julia Cameron brought, in her The Right to Write book, when she points that writers use pages to put out what their strongest ideas to change in the world, or when they write in a sort of revenge of a fight. [We need to check this. The words of Julia Cameron have a context, it is not about strong in the sense of right and perfect but has to do with rage. ] All of us have that, in somewhere, an inclination to talk about our fights. Julia Cameron just asks us to put on the page, to keep the drama on the page. It is a calling for focusing. 

But then, what goes along with that, is that the written things or said or presented, by many people is that they use words to convey their wishes, their ideas. They are using words, arranged in different ways, to convince an audience. In all situations that pattern seem to be common, that no one communicates with another with the intention of being misunderstood, or wishing the other to object to their ideas. Thus we have goals, when we write or say something, and intentions to convey in a way that takes us to succeed with the audience we are communicating something that we think it is worth it. 

One point to look, from one communication to another, has to do with how one does it. Some people do it with style. Some can do naturally do well. Some struggle a lot and speak their ideas perfectly. Others put a lot of work and nothing sticks. But we all know what induction is, and how we use it, although not many will recognize the phenomenon of using it as induction. It is all around. As I was having coffee before writing the draft for this article, I heard a person that were passing by as he was leaving a voice message to someone. He said "What did you think of my idea?" And right away added the note "although it is not the best solution, what do you think?". After that I couldn't hear more, and it was enough for me. He was seemed to be trying to add value to his poor idea. The way he said was also part of his convincing mechanism. Or he knew that the other, on the other end, were likely to cut his idea and needed something the other could agree with. Perhaps he was trying to induce by presenting a reason as in one that said "man, we won't have the time to pick the perfect idea." And likely was hoping that the others, in the urgency of the world, would say a yes, let's go with that. 

Although my job here is not to judge his proposal to his friend; we can turn our attention to the aspects of induction in everywhere. In other words, in all communication that flows, induction flows.

On the other hand, to consider induction, is a problem for many people that want to put their ideas out but have a brain that loves deduction, people that love to coordinate their ideas by expressing the element of their struggle such as the steps of their discoveries. Many people are like that, such as engineers, as they don't even want to change their model of communication, from deductive to inductive. They might feel, as they approach the subject, that they are tricking themselves, that they are being other beings that they dislike, like perhaps a salesman that is in hurry to convince someone. Considering to engage the tools of induction can then sound like one that is interested in tricking others. 

But there are others that have an engineering mind but understand also the induction tools. These are the folks that can actually transform their solid ideas in solid proposals. Perhaps these are the ones that do a lot of work of the kind of work that Barbara Minto connects with; in her book The Pyramid Principle. The kind of work she asks us. To use logic, and critical thinking, to re-write a good idea and proposal with an inductive approach in a way that it properly connects with an audience. That is Barbara's SCqA way of organizing a communication; and it offers a great deal of clarity for people that are pursuing to become executives, the ones that want to achieve traction with decision makers. 

Therefore, induction is used by people to engage us. Bad people that trick others. People that used it without noticing that they are tricking others. And the good people too that have good ideas and do not ignore it. Therefore, induction is all around. Therefore, induction pulls us. With or without a great deal of logic behind - as Barbara would require us to do - induction pulls us. We are attracted to induction as we know that the best storytelling that conveys the best stories, are conveyed with induction. Therefore, we get used to trusting what comes ahead, when we hear induction, when induction comes out in our way. 

I was in a supermarket these days and the lady of the deli section promoted a product when we were to buy mossarela cheese. Apparently, as far as we knew it, we wanted 200g of mossarela. But before we said the amount, she interrupted us to suggest that we buy the mossarela that were pre-packaged by her (pre sliced and in a combo with prosciutto). She said that the cost, per gram, of that mossarela were less. Needless to say that we were in a hurry, right? We were not there to reason, to think, to get ideas for writing a book or reflecting about the ways people communicate with induction. We were apparently just there to buy mossarela. But I was there and confess having entered in the basic math which is something we do when buying. We never ignore the math, right? I asked her how much was the cost per kilogram of the mossarela alone to which she said 55 brazilian reals. And then she added that the cost per kilogram for the one in the package was 40. So, the basic math seems to work and she also added an inductive expression, with her face, and said that she was there to help. I then asked her what where the cost of the - needless to say cheap/poor quality - prosciutto that came in the package. She said that if was about 30 Brazilian reals. The package was half half, and somehow I wasn't anymore there to buy that but willing to see what was really going on. And with another not so simple math as the prior exercise, I figured that the price per kilogram in the combo package was the average of the prices; and voila, she as basically offering 200g of mossarela at its normal price with a 200g of cheap low quality prosciutto at its normal price. But in her communication, she were telling me that the mossarela were cheaper, only that part. 

At that point I told her that she was selling he prosciutto at a higher price. She smiled and added again that she was there to help, with a smile. That I could either accept her help, or not. I knew that the person I love was next to me so I pictured myself kicking the whole shelf of bread nearby, and moved on. We picked the pricey prosciutto and the cheap mossarela although we didn't come to the deli section to buy prosciutto. We were too urgent to pause life right there. Pausing life seemed to be wrong. 

What can I say about that thing that is all around? Is this article just a ranting about inductive forces all around us? Well, I wanted to celebrate that induction works, now. It is as if I can now achieve peace with induction. See, if I keep that last moment of rage, without flowing into these pages, I would perhaps not move on, not grasp a single learning, not take advantage. And now I felt I was able to bring justice, to the story, in the page as Julia Cameron recommends. Perhaps right there, although indeed what they were doing is not nice to people, that thing can be good for me, for us, an opportunity to reflect. Pehaps we can learn with them. Of course, not with the goal of tricking our audiences, with a goal of selling to them as a salesman that lies. But learn that induction is all around and that taming induction is a good investment; at least so that you can better come out of trouble, at least so that you can spot it. Pèrhasp the moments of trouble won't come in your way like that as life puts mossarela on your way. 

There is a metaphor from Benjamin Zander, from his inspiring talk ( I am now cheaply trying to induce you here ) entitled The Transformative Power of Classical Music, and a point where he says that "the music pushes you over". I think that his metaphor is applicable to what I am trying to extract - as I am trying to separate the induction from the ideas of people. Because good music offers beat, melody, harmony; a logic that pushes us. When played nice and if you like the style, the music pushes you over, indeed. 

The induction pushes you over too as it presents the mechanics that we know as the good mechanics that can can carry things. The logic in the use of induction can be like a super fast train. See, one thing is the train and the other is the cargo. When induction comes our way, it comes with a sound of a train. We don't have time to look at the interior of it, to see its cargo and all the logic. But we might, even without noticing it, enter it and pay the ticket. 

Back in the Silicon Valley days, when I was working at one of the iconic companies of the 2000s, I almost had the time to understand what a manager did in a meeting. My English were poor, my abilities to control induction poorer; but I wasn't afraid to say my thoughts. As I wanted to convince my peers, I said something like "mada MADA big Bada bum, korben, nada bum nada bum." An the manager, right after my saying, said with a clear and precise English "But more importantly,.." which was the carrier to what he said next that everyone accepted. 

That was a big lesson I could not exactly grasp at the time. But I sort of knew what he did. But in general that happens, as we try to communicate, in front of managers and important people, and in the places where urgency is the currency. We move on, we let go, for the sake of pragmatism, for the sake of love, for the sake of not engaging with the wrong. You can't pause life right there, at the moment when things happen. Which brings us to celebrate induction here. I could end this article as my goal has more to do with something like a mindfullness moment to celebrate induction. But we can explore a bit more how words, and arrangements of words, carry induction. 

[Add here note from the ideas of Adam Silva.]