# Stop impressing

<!--

Zinsser, W. (2006). On Writing Well: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction (7th ed.). Harper Perennial.

Child, J. (2023, July 7). The Job of a CFO at a Scaling Company | Sarah Friar (CFO of Square) & Jason Child (CFO of Opendoor) [Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/A9MqV4ULMuM?t=889

-->

The business world carries a toxic DNA that influences us and often prevents entrepreneurs from succeeding more quickly; it's in the genes of the entrepreneur, this behavior that leads them to try to impress others. And this attempt is ineffective on the path that demands a genuine entrepreneur; precisely because the genuine, the authentic, is the one who learns faster - let's assume that inauthenticity is an artificial facet and therefore it doesn't contribute to the interaction between the entrepreneur and the world.

Consider this section an opportunity for reflection on this problem, or syndrome, that affects us humans.

The attack, or outbreak, or need to impress can appear under various conditions but necessarily involves a receiver, an audience.

But regardless of the audience or the medium, the entrepreneur can engage in this behavior automatically. Thus, the action of impressing, or trying to impress, materializes in writing, in face-to-face communication (1:1), in meeting presentations (1:n), in speeches, etc.

The writer William Zinsser, in his book, On Writing Well, alerts us to a norm present in the world of executives - they are victimized by the need to appear important [^zinsser-impressing].

[^zinsser-impressing]: "High executives were equally victimized by wanting to sound important." William Zinsser, p.176, On Writing Well.

But where does this need come from? Or even, this victimization? The phenomenon has become so entrenched in the work environment that perhaps people are no longer aware when they simply enter the game of trying to impress.

To say that it's a game is an interesting articulation because it turns out that many times we do it not because we really want to, but in fact we accept the rules of the game, or we dance to the music. In this sense, the action of entering "impression mode" becomes mediocre because it is firstly a cliché, or it suggests the comfortable action of playing the same mediocre beat of the ambient music - it leads to jargon, it leads to the standard, it leads to disconnection with the audience and it does not elevate. The situation, which could be one of learning, which could be relevant to the individuals in the scene, becomes not only a pastime, but worse, a toxic pastime - even more so when everyone is there doing the same thing, just trying to impress; without honest, genuine agendas.

But leaving, or getting out of this mode is difficult, because precisely the environment around us conditions us - everyone participates together. Thus, it is important for us to detect and identify the "impress" mode - an art that requires patience, observation and reflection. That is, it is counterintuitive because the urgent world asks for an entrepreneur can't pause to reflect or think as things go; and is likely to be acting just like the people around.

When William Zinsser analyzed text productions from institutions in an effort to dejargonize the corporate America, he has identified communications of all sorts that were not doing justice to what could be what they really wanted to say: 

> "What I realized was that most executives in America don't write what appears over their signature or what they say in their speeches. They have surrendered the qualities that make them unique." (Zinsser, 2006, p.176)

De fato - pois encontrar uma carta, por exemplo do diretor da escola, e não encontrar a identidade do diretor nela, ficou normal. É como se nós fossemos de certa forma colaboradores desse jeito de agir - aceitamos o fato quando somos o leitor, a audiência; e muitas vezes colaboramos com essa cultura ou sistema que elimina o lado pessoal, que deixa tudo mais pasteurizado ou enlatado.

How many letters or memos from presidents are edited by their executive secretaries, experts at ensuring that the executive's words stop being personal and become the voice of the company, a voice that must adapt to the myriad other preferences on the urgent business agenda? This process transforms the text, which might have once had a hint of the president's DNA, but no longer, once it goes through this executive 'printer.'

This state of affairs has come about precisely because these multiple agendas attack simultaneously. The secretary knows what they have to do when they edit the president's texts - they were hired to modify, or adapt, to ensure a certain 'quality.' Perhaps this vision of 'quality' helps us explain, or understand, the 'wonder' that the business world has achieved.

We are constantly adapting - our speech, our clothes, our gait, our behavior.

Executives, directors, teachers, secretaries, apprentices - whoever it may be - are adapting, or attempting to adapt, to a world that spins like a frantic ferris wheel. Being part of this machinery works, to a certain extent, but it's not efficient for the entrepreneur who typically has a more critical agenda, one that involves breaking rules, raising the bar, stepping outside the norm, thinking outside the box.

Thus, innovation demands alignment with identity and authenticity above all. The entrepreneur who mindlessly attempts to conform, to stop being who they are, becomes just another part of the machine. In this state, it's highly likely they are not truly innovating. Entrepreneurship doesn't start with conformity because the existing world is already in harmony; it doesn't need another supplier. Even a simplistic idea of fitting in, like "offering the same product at half the price," which theoretically has great chances of finding an audience, still carries an element of nonconformity - the half price.

The relentless pursuit of fitting into the norm has a guaranteed result, which is the lack of creativity, an antidote to entrepreneurship and innovation.

Impressing others, or the attempt to impress, sadly isn't an idea that says "I'm going to break away from the norm". This idea of self-promotion is, in essence, mediocre, as it advocates for behaving in the way one believes to be expected. In this vein, an entrepreneur can lose themselves, become diminished, and reduced. Consequently, they decrease their chances of success, of discovering genuine innovation, and worst of all, of learning - since the entrepreneur's job is to seek truths, learn, and explore the ordinary world.

In this sense, the serious entrepreneur, not overly desperate to conform, understands the importance of remaining genuine, authentic, and seeking harmony between themselves, their business, and the external environment. The responsibility to ensure their actions and those of their team members are aligned with these values falls solely on them because they are in command. This responsibility can't be outsourced but it can, and should, foster a positive culture.

Jason Child had the chance to work directly with Jeff Bezos, the founder and CEO of Amazon, and pointed the unique of Bezos to avoid receiving information intended to please him: 

> "Jeff Bezos had a very strong point of view that as the CEO every one of his direct reports has a bias to want to please him and so therefore the analysis of the metrics they show are going to try to show that they're doing a great job and so Jeff is famous for a couple things one of the things is he optimizes not for a cohesive culture but a truth seeking culture." (Child, 2023) 

This skepticism was illustrated by Jason in the case of presentations of the finance department: When a presentation was given, and whether it was too good or bad, Bezos would ask to double-check the data. 

As can be seen, the issue of impressing others enters various settings and is deeply embedded in corporate culture and in life in general. The figures need to be attractive, the stories need to be well told, and conformity masked as quality is omnipresent. Perhaps, if it weren't for Amazon's strong culture, present from the very beginning, Amazon wouldn't exist today as we know it. In this sense, Amazon's culture exemplifies the search for truths and this resonates with the idea here of not wanting to impress.

This discussion emphasizes the importance of remaining authentic and genuine, rather than merely trying to impress.


