
##### Case of envy and readiness 


Where does it come from the idea that people have to find time for things, such as special projects? I have, a few years ago, in the sense of trying to challenged myself, fighting that idea as in saying "it does not work like that". And it seemed right but still I caught myself thinking about time and having time. But today, when reading Julia Cameron, I caught a new origin of bad ideas about "having to have time for things" She mentioned envy. That people may be envious of one another that seem to have time. HAve you see that idea? Any other idea which supports the myth of having time? JUlia Cameron brought the word victimization of time too. 

This idea of envy might open a good reflection that gives us a view about what seems to be a mature or a corporate version of the individual that is envy of the hypothetical other that has time. What fundamentally goes on with the "envy" is a comparison mechanism, which trigger us to compare with the "other entity" that has more resources and the right conditions, the investment, gas in the tank, you name it. 

Julia Cameron points the situation of "would be" writers that can't exercise the fundamental mechanism, they can't write. She asks them to make time, and as they do, that they might find themselves doing it, being able to allocate time. They are "opening" time against others, perhaps as a sense of safety increases. And for that, for writers, they need to nurture that condition, so that their strugle or need to be ready, readiness, is lessed. 


Some activities naturally pose a challenge to initiate. Imagine, as an entrepreneur, if you had to redesign your sales process, devise a new strategy, or reflect about the culture in the early stage of your start-up. These tasks often carry expectations and elicit strong emotions as our minds gear up for thoughtful analysis. Well, not really. If an activitity ahead is taken as not important, the natural reaction might be to ignore it in formal terms, quite strong, although of course a definite move firm after the feeling of certainty. 

Indeed, we naturally gravitate towards tasks where we feel we have a firm grip on the steering wheel. These are the activities where we're in control, where we can clearly see the road ahead and navigate the journey at our own pace. Yet, when it comes to other activities, such as challenging where how do to and results can't be measured, we might feel anxiety, or fear, or a sense that it won't progress. For that, we do have good reasons, such as the desire to be safe. We want to be prepared for these kinds of activities. The idea of progressing through planning and analysis isn't as straightforward as following a recipe even when it is labor-intensive. In other words, is more comfortable to run on the gas pedal when we don't have to review the road map or even the trip strategy. 

With this openning, it is not that we entirely give up doing things that requires redesign. It is just that we want to be in a good position, to be in the right mood, to be prepared, ready, and having things sorted out. This situation plagues all sorts of professionals, but especially the roles that involves leadership such as of entrepreneurs. 



##### Search for reasons for timeless 






Furthermore, the notion of "analysis paralysis" frequently resonates in our minds, embodying the fear that we may become so wrapped up in overthinking and overanalyzing that we end up immobilized, incapable of making decisions or taking action. This fear can amplify our anxiety and the perceived necessity to be 'in the right mood' to tackle these demanding tasks. While the real situation of analysis paralysis can indeed be debilitating, the prevalence of this concept in discussions and self-reflections often heightens the apprehension about engaging with tasks that seem to be complex. It's essential to distinguish between the phenomenon that gave rise to the concept - of analysis paralysis - and the rhetorical device it has become, often used to accentuate the fears and which challenges the execution of important tasks. 

Conclusion? We need to be in the right position to advance, in a good mood, in a positive emotional state, and the readiness condition in general, that gives us more control towards the outcome. But to get out of this need that prevents us from advancing more complex reflections, and in the pursuit of a solution, it is need to emphasize the value, in the first place, of the exercise of reflection on this automatic tendency of ours. Furthermore, it is worth considering Julia Cameron's idea for the situation of writers - which can shed light for entrepreneurs. The exercise that Julia suggests consists of writing - for example for 10 minutes - about what is on your mind, some concern, for instance, a lack of preparation. From there, try to write for another 5 minutes about how your mood towards the activity has changed. She asks us to make a sort of report on the experience.

Not unlike, it also happens in the life of writers, as illustrated by Julia Cameron (1998) in 'The Right to Write'. It is a phenomenon that plagues all sorts of professionals, especially those in leadership or entrepreneurial roles.

##### Conclusion?