# Environment 

That entrepreneurship happens in the environment, we know, and with that it is plausible to consider how the influences and is influenced by the entrepreneurial function. While I can't say if COVID-19 had anything to do with accelerating the adoption of a particular kind of ordering method at restaurants in Brazil, it gave me a good opportunity to compare the before and after. Before, I remember how quick it was for me to ask the waiter for the menu and a beer at once. After, on the other hand and before I could open my mouth, the waiter would quickly ask me me to take a photo of a image on a table - what they refer as the QR code menu - as the way to access the menu from a smartphone, and eventually if nothing happens for a while he would too be willing to help with the process. 

It it as well inescapable to think about the many things that need to be in place for anything new to stick around, such as the technological conditions, the necessity of interfaces that we understand, and a language that give to us minimally a half-door open so that we can get the reasons to jump in. Of course, all of that may depend on a fruitful conomic movement which otherwise a great idea may not stick. 

We know too that once we are in an environment that is familiar, how easy is for us to accept the propositions that incrementally improve things around us. As an illustration, consider that once the car had entered our lives we went through so many additions to a point that we don't bother anything odd when we picture a driver that is comfortably seated in the car listening to a hip-hop song and being nursed by a thick milkshake large enough to last for the whole traffic jam. 

And likewise, that the more we get into it, how challenging and uncomfortable we may feel - in good or bad ways - in the face of the disruptive innovations that knock on our doors from time to time and affect our ways of living before we know it. Consider how some of our ancestors felt uncomfortable by the chugs and hisses of the early locomotives, as reported by Maury Klein in The Power Makers:

<!--
@meta @todo
* @todo - p2 (Done ) - In Environment - Check the introductory line and the bring the precise quote from The Power Makers, Maury Klein, of the school that posted a note fearing the locomotives. @meta-refid 1212-3334-4442-8887 
-->

 > *"As rails spread across the land, opposition came from canal owners, some states that had invested heavily in canals, turnpike and bridge companies, stagecoach lines, tavernkeepers, and anyone who saw his business threatened by the railroad. Some people even raised religious and moral objections. An Ohio's school board warned in 1828 that 'if God had designed that His intelligent creatures should travel at the frightful speed of 25 miles an hour by steam, He would have foretold it through His holy prophets. It is the device of Satan to lead immortal souls down to Hell.'" (Klein, 2009, p. 57) 

<!--
@references 
* reference - Klein, Maury. (2009). The power makers: steam, electricity, and the men who invented modern America. Bloomsbury Press. First U.S. edition.
-->

<!-- 
@outline @meta
* @outline - Complication - All happens in a space; User needs depends on the space and their environment creates the needs too. 
--> 

With these comparisons my intention is to invite us to celebrate, first, that the changes that created our environment strongly sets our perspectives and how we respond when we think about the future. When I visited my car's mechanic, a couple years ago, and asked him about the potential rise of eletric cars in Brazil, his reasons for why it wouldn't work were mostly market reasons and less to do with what could be thought of as higher values such as the environmental impact to the planet or other moral or even religious concerns. But to think that way, I caught myself when writing this, I would be missing the point that there are no lower or higher values and what really matters is that the values given are usually enough for driving our entrepreneurial action. In other words, if one justifies the reality of a market to judge if something is a go-no-go then this one is likely aware of the characterizations of that market, which could be generally considered a good thing the idea that many of us understand what are markets. 

Therefore, and if we are to consider how we are bounded to our environment, we shouldn't miss the celebration that the possibilities for doing things might be expanded given the abundance of possibilities offered by the platforms of our modern world. It is a good thing that a lot can be done and that human potential can be busy building things by using the tools and methods and frameworks and systems and networks and a lot more doing all of that with good expectations and also in harmony with others. There is that happening in the world and it is worth celebrating.

However, it comes from that too that the world of possibilities given by our environment can greatly impact many to, for lack of a better word, to be trapped or thinking in the box. In other words, there is a lot of movement that might be considered as entrepreneurial movement but in fact, if taken from perspective, can be considered to be business as usual. And there is nothing wrong with that as the bricklayer that builds houses carries the main element of the true entrepreneurs - the ability to get things done. What matters for all the entrepreneurs - not matter what they the bits and pieces that they are layering - is that being aware of their environment - tools or platforms or methods or the playbooks or a marketplace or else - is important as they should understand and interpret the obvious things - like boundaries or limits and possibilities - but also the meaning for themselves and from the perspective of where they are going such as the view for the startup growth and the business in the long run. 

Let us continue to celebrate some aspects that shapes our environment, starting first with a moment to think about the formation of platforms espeically that more digital platorms are layered in our lives; and to to consider how what we do is highly influeced by the shapes and form of the interfaces of tools we have, the things we interact with. And furthermore that our environment is also constructed by the minimal tools for collaboration, our vocabulary, the words that people use to do the things they want to do. 

